1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-23T00-54Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-23T00-54Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-23T00-54Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Tcf8,Anthropic introduced Claude Opus 5.5 on September 22, 2026, positioning it as the new flagship model. The headline promise is stark: it reaches Fable 5.1 performance levels while consuming 40% less compute. Real-world examples from early testers show dramatic efficiency wins—one user completed a 680,000-line code migration in under a day (previously weeks of team work); another audited a 200,000-line codebase in three hours versus Opus 5's 20-plus hours. Opus 5.5 generates output over 30% faster than Opus 5.

Pricing reflects the efficiency. Input tokens drop from $5 to $4 per million, outputs from $25 to $20. Most notably, cache reads plummet to $0.20 from $0.50 per million—a 60% reduction that directly targets agentic and coding workloads where cache dominates costs. Opus 5.5 also matches or beats Opus 5 at default effort levels on benchmarks where Opus 5 required max effort, deepening the cost advantage.

On benchmarks, Opus 5.5 leads on agentic coding (Terminal-Bench 4.0: 66.4% vs Fable 5.1's 55.8%, vs Opus 5's 52.3%), computer use (OSWorld 2.0: 81.8% partial), and knowledge work (GDPval-AA: 1846 Elo vs 1735). Anthropic acknowledges that at frontier capabilities, benchmark margins are noisy and real-world performance gaps are narrower. Coding work shows the most compelling win: on FrontierCode, Opus 5.5 beats GPT-6 Astra (OpenAI's model) for roughly 20% of the cost.

Safety received heavy emphasis. Opus 5.5 scored best-ever on Anthropic's automated behavioral audit across thousands of simulated scenarios, is more resistant to prompt injection (matching or beating Opus 5 in all tested settings), and is less likely to take hard-to-reverse actions or exceed boundaries. Because it approaches Fable 5.1 capability in biology and cybersecurity, it carries safeguards from that tier—verified organizations can apply for life sciences and cybersecurity verification programs.

Communication quality improved markedly over Opus 5. Early testers praised it for writing more naturally, putting critical information first, and avoiding verbose or jargon-heavy explanations. Anthropic shows side-by-side examples: on a bug explanation, Opus 5 dumps technical details; Opus 5.5 leads with the root cause and context. One tester said it "writes the way I do."

Customer testimonials underscore efficiency gains. GitHub reported fewer steps and tokens on terminal tasks in VS Code. Clio noted an 18-hour autonomous task that stayed focused with minimal rework. Optiver reported 40–50% cost reduction on agentic coding tasks while matching Opus 5's quality, plus highest-ever scores on their trading-support suite. Quantium and Spotify confirmed token efficiency and faster completion. Column and Kiro highlighted better delegation and fewer tool calls.

The HN comment from sidrag22 is revealing: they called Opus 5 "by far the worst release of 2026" from both major labs, too immature for general public use, forcing them back to Opus 4.8 (May 2026) for months. They deem 5.5 a redemption, finally making the $20 Pro tier worthwhile. The other visible comment (tomhow) merely notes discussion moved to another thread. The modest comment count (2) and 273 points suggest measured reception—interest but not euphoria, possibly dampened by lukewarm sentiment toward Opus 5 still fresh in memory.13:Te93,OpenAI announced GPT-6 Sol and Luna alongside the earlier GPT-6 Astra release. These models share Astra's training approach but focus on cost efficiency. Pricing cuts 50% compared to 5.6 versions: Sol drops to $2/$10 per million tokens (input/output), Luna to $0.10/$0.50, making Luna exceptionally cheap.

Performance gains span multiple domains. On AutomationBench (business workflows), GPT-6 Sol at xhigh effort scores 33.2% for $0.27/task—beating Claude Opus 5's 26.9% at $3.00/task and matching low-effort Astra. On Agents' Last Exam, Sol at max effort reaches 56.4%, exceeding Opus 5's highest score at 60% lower cost. For coding on DeepSWE v1.1, Sol scores 68.8% (within 1.1 points of Claude Fable 5) at 80% lower cost; Luna scores 66.6% comparable to Opus 5 at medium effort, costing 93% less. Factuality improved—Sol makes half the mistakes of 5.6 Sol. Computer use (OSWorld 2.0) shows Sol matching Opus 5 medium at 80% lower cost. OpenAI also enhanced prompt caching with higher hit rates by default, 90% discounts on cached reads, and improved tooling (dashboard, diagnostics, cache breakpoints). GitHub reports 50%+ reduction in fresh token processing across billions of requests.

Comment consensus splits between enthusiasm and skepticism. Luna's price-to-capability ratio is treated as extraordinary—one user notes it's already "practically free" on Pro plans and now "insane" at $0.10/M input tokens. Simon Willison shared side-by-side pelican image comparisons across effort levels, showing stylistic consistency but minor differences. Many praised the value proposition; one developer calls it a "new milestone."

However, significant disagreement emerged. Artificial Analysis reported GPT-6 Luna regressed 2 points on their Coding Agent Index versus 5.6 Luna (scoring 41 vs 43) despite 60% cost reduction, raising questions about whether these models are genuinely improved or repackaged with more reasoning effort applied to compensate. One user speculated the lower cost came from "slightly nerfed base model combined with more thinking," creating concern about erratic scoring curves. A developer who previously switched from Sol xhigh to Terra medium due to usage limits expressed confusion about whether Luna 6 would replace Terra.

Comments on communication style noted improvements in clarity and terseness—the blog post showed GPT-6 Sol avoiding premature conclusions and unnecessary jargon compared to 5.6 Sol on a web design task. One user appreciated the shift away from "meaningless gibberish" in model outputs.

Some users defended their Claude choice: one noted Claude Code wins on context window (252k vs Codex's limit) and code mergeability; another prefers Claude for UI/design feedback quality. A blind developer requested accessibility fixes to ChatGPT's iOS app (text field announcements with spurious backslashes).

Broader concerns emerged: one developer expressed feeling "professionally vulnerable" to model changes after bonding with 5.6 Sol's communication style, missing the reliability of tools like JetBrains. Another said model release pace is frustrating, calling the marketing of multiple tiers "insulting" when newer should simply mean better. One commenter worried about career implications as AI improves exponentially.

Discussion also touched availability—Luna reached free/Go users only in desktop app, not web Chat. Some noted Codex's rocky launch and questioned whether Sol/Luna would appear on Azure/AWS. One user complained about ChatGPT's confusing usage limit and reasoning-effort control interactions, and another mentioned the toml context-window workaround for Codex stopped working on subscription plans (though a correction stated it can be re-enabled).14:Ta23,Xiaomi released MiMo v2.6 with two main variants: Flash with 15B activated parameters from 309B total, and Pro with 42B activated from 1.02T total. The linked page was unavailable, but HN comments reveal the release emphasized transparency—Xiaomi shared a real-time training dashboard and comprehensive technical reports including methodology details and benchmark scores, earning praise for setting a high bar for model release transparency compared to US labs.

Pricing emerges as MiMo's main competitive advantage. Multiple commenters noted the models undercut comparable options despite parameter efficiency claims, with costs roughly 10% that of similar-sized competitors when considering tokens-per-second. One user documented MiMo 2.6 Pro achieving competitive pricing/performance ratios on Artificial Analysis graphs.

Benchmark performance is mixed and contested. On some metrics, Pro-2.6 reportedly leads 1T-parameter model Kimi K3 on 14 of 15 tests. However, comments questioning benchmark validity note suspicious results where Opus 5 outperforms more recent models. Real-world testing showed limitations: one engineer's image-to-HTML conversion found MiMo 2.6 Pro overthought tasks, produced longer generation times (36 minutes vs Astra's 19), and made visual errors (cropped arm on statue) compared to Astra and Grok 4.7.

User experience reports are cautiously positive but reveal infrastructure issues. Users consistently found MiMo a strong earlier model (particularly 2.5 Pro for context efficiency and strategic reasoning), but current API users report timeouts and token inefficiency at medium/high settings on official hosted versions. One user successfully ran it locally at 25-35 tokens/second on DGX hardware.

The broader conversation centered on geopolitical AI competition: several commenters argued China will win the long-term AI race due to energy grid superiority and rapid datacenter expansion, versus US reliance on retrofitting infrastructure. Others noted the commoditization of frontier models and the lack of sustainable moats for OpenAI/Anthropic, viewing Chinese competition as consumer-beneficial.

Practical deployment concerns emerged: users questioned whether MiMo is viable for production use given data privacy ambiguity (Xiaomi claims no training on user data but terms are unclear) and lack of reliable EU/US hosting options with guaranteed quantization transparency. One commenter noted inability to test higher-tier models due to API timeouts, questioning usability. Interest in local deployment was expressed but seemed limited to enthusiasts.15:Tb49,The article frames algorithmic content delivery as attention hijacking. It opens with the Tetris effect—how focused practice rewires perception—then argues that when algorithms decide what appears on our screens, we've surrendered control of our thought patterns. Specific examples: YouTube recommends doomscroll-inducing content over chosen preferences; Spotify inserts AI-generated filler to avoid royalties; LinkedIn buries relevant news under sponsored content; Reddit and other platforms are increasingly polluted with bots and trolls. The author contrasts this with the "intentional internet" of the 1990s-2000s, where you explicitly chose bookmarks, visited specific sites, and had to actively seek out harmful content rather than having it pushed to you. The call is to return to RSS feeds, blogs, and deliberate browsing despite slower, less infinite content.

The comments broadly agree with the critique but add important corrections and disagreements. Several users validate personal experience: cutting social media has improved focus, reading more books, noticing the mindless tab-switching habit. One highly-upvoted comment (econ) points out a historical oversight: browsers could have better preserved bookmark history and offline access, but the infrastructure evolved toward centralized platforms instead. Another (cube00) challenges the nostalgia by noting that Yahoo, Lycos, and MSN homepages were similarly attention-grabbing and packed with clickbait ads—the era wasn't purely intentional, just differently manipulative.

A provocative counterargument (kushbhuwalka) questions whether doomscrolling is actually net-negative, noting Gen Alpha seems cognitively advanced despite or because of constant micro-content consumption, raising the correlation-causation problem. One commenter (zkmon) reframes algorithmic feeds as neutral mirrors of your interests, no different than curating a physical bookshelf. Several laud the value of algorithmic discovery for serendipity (Krei-se admits enjoying YouTube's algorithm for winding down), though they separate that from addiction-designed systems.

Expert and practical consensus emerges: the problem isn't algorithms per se but optimization for engagement metrics that incentivize outrage and infinite scroll. Night_Thastus connects this to advertising's psychological manipulation, and dwb references the predicted shift from "pull" to "push" internet. A few solutions surface: disabling recommendations and following only chosen accounts, using ad blockers, selfhosting, and brick-and-mortar books as attention protection. Several note Hacker News itself as a remnant of intentional internet culture. The prevailing verdict: the author is right that we surrendered agency, but the solution requires individual discipline rather than systemic change—though some suspect regulatory or market corrections may come.16:T105a,Colin Breck expresses frustration with AI-generated writing in business and technical contexts. His core complaint: people who rarely write now produce extensive documents using AI, creating verbose, context-free text that exhausts readers. Design docs become mechanical summaries rather than proposals for consensus-building. Pull requests detail every change without explaining why. Personal messages become impersonal despite AI's attempt to nuance them. He cites a Cynthia Dunlop survey showing 78% of readers stop reading articles they perceive as AI-assisted, and 71% avoid those authors, with 98% preferring authentic human writing.

Breck distinguishes sharply between using AI as a reader versus writer. When you prompt an AI, you have context and can quickly filter output. Readers of that same text have no context and must parse every line, turning reading into exhausting work. Writing requires vulnerability and relationships that AI cannot replicate.

However, Breck describes excellent AI use in his recent academic paper. He wrote every paragraph himself in LaTeX but used AI to verify technical accuracy against source code and logs, find spelling and grammar errors, simplify unclear sentences, create TikZ diagrams, and complete citations. The one thing AI wrote unchanged: the abstract, the "most terse, mechanical, inhuman" part. Never once was it valuable to ask AI to write paragraphs from context—always unpleasant and inaccurate.

Breck argues certain kinds of writing resist mechanization: poetry, literature, humor, and narrative work where meaning isn't direct. Systems engineering, incident response, and security work involve uncertainty and discovery that summaries destroy. He quotes Iain McGilchrist: "The more important something is, the more we have to struggle in the attempt to reduce it to language." Narrative resists compression; attention to detail is the opposite of summary.

He concludes intentional writing will become more valuable. People who write to think deeply will continue; non-writers will use AI to produce volume. He worries about a feedback loop where the tools available shape the questions we ask, gradually training ourselves to think in ways that machines can answer.

HN comments split several ways. Many agree strongly. zmmmmm rejects PRs bloated with AI justification—the investment to read it exceeds the value when they could write the change themselves. Agentlien praises human "hand-crafted" articles as increasingly rare and valuable. bajnokk notes AI-written text removes subtle linguistic cues of human uncertainty that readers use to assess trustworthiness.

Others push back. gfody argues the perspective is elitist, excluding people who struggle to articulate thoughts without AI's help. They point out workshopping with AI can help non-writers express genuine ideas they otherwise couldn't communicate. earthnail agrees in principle but notes that heavy iterative prompting ("write like a human, not a robot") can yield readable output. benrutter suggests the real problem is AI converting bullet points into fake prose—if people just polished bullet lists instead, verbose AI text wouldn't feel deceptive.

Some commenters find the piece self-refuting or ironic. jmcgough wonders if it's a troll given the phrase "isn't just difficult—it is punishing" sounds AI-generated. almondfestival makes the same observation. Reason077 and 0c3ca83 note the irony of criticizing AI writing on a platform full of AI-written content. A few suggest the discourse is becoming repetitive (cjlm) or that LLMs will soon master writing anti-AI articles (kingcauchy).

muzani claims LLM writing quality has actually dropped recently, contrary to Breck's suggestion it's plateaued, citing disappoint with Claude Sonnet 4.5. Others note AI quality varies enormously by model and prompt quality—Max-q and addisonj argue strong guidelines and iterative refinement can produce readable work.

The strongest consensus: human voice, uncertainty, and imperfection matter. The sharpest disagreement: whether this excludes non-writers unfairly or whether those people should write differently, accepting their authentic struggle.17:Ta1b,The author describes discovering macOS 15.3 had enabled Apple Intelligence, a feature allegedly phoning home every 15 minutes, despite believing they had disabled it. The toggle was buried two layers deep. Upon upgrading to macOS 27, Apple removed the ability to disable Apple Intelligence entirely, though Siri (which still has hidden processes) could nominally be turned off. The feature consumes 22.28GB of disk space, which the author frames as £11 of value stolen on a machine where Apple charges £500/TB. The post argues the AI industry fundamentally lacks consent—that you cannot truly say no—and criticizes Apple's shift from "think different" to aggressive AI imposition.

A critical correction dominates the comment section: the "15-minute phoning home" claim is factually wrong. The setting the author references (Privacy & Security > Apple Intelligence Report > Report Duration) merely controls a transparency log shown to the user, not the frequency of data transmission. One commenter clarifies this is equivalent to app network monitoring visibility, not additional data collection. This significantly undermines the article's central premise, though commenters acknowledge the broader concern is legitimate.

The verified complaint concerns removal of opt-out toggles. In macOS 27, users can no longer globally disable Apple Intelligence via settings, though some per-app blocking exists. Multiple commenters confirm Siri processes persist even when disabled, and Apple Intelligence features in Photos and other core apps cannot be fully removed. One user confirmed a 4th-gen iPad Air runs iPadOS 27 without Apple Intelligence, proving the feature isn't required for the OS.

Workarounds discussed include using Apple Configurator to deploy restrictions profiles, changing Siri region to an unsupported country (yields ~15GB recovery), and avoiding major version upgrades initially. Commenters broadly accept the critique that Apple now aggressively pushes AI features while removing granular user control, characterizing this as a shift toward hostility. Comparisons to Windows and Android (GrapheneOS) appear frequently as users express frustration with walled-garden coercion.

Some contextualize this as inevitable post-Jobs Apple: the product is now data/behavioral lock-in rather than elegant tools. Regulatory calls for mandatory opt-in/opt-out during setup (EU precedent cited) emerge. A minority defends Apple's approach or notes that manual controls do exist, but consensus leans toward Apple's practices feeling increasingly non-consensual and anti-user.18:Tdcd,Cantrill argues Sun's fundamental problem wasn't strategy or technology but boredom with executing the mechanics of business. He illustrates this with a viral 2005 blog post from a startup running OpenSolaris that wanted to buy Sun hardware: Sun couldn't get a sales rep to answer the phone or pitched wrong products, while Dell's account executive "Steve" closed the deal in two weeks, handled leasing without personal guarantees, and made the startup feel genuinely served. That blog resonated deeply with Cantrill, then starting Fishworks in an abandoned Sun office; he realized no company can succeed while bored with operational execution, no matter how good its strategy. Sun lasted a few more years but couldn't recover. Cantrill later joined that startup and years later co-founded Oxide with Steve from Dell.

The HN discussion adds rich context and complications. Several former Sun employees (coreyh, ggm, kens) confirm the sales nightmare—endless quote revisions, forced live meetings, vastly more expensive than commodity alternatives. Multiple commenters describe the Dell contrast: web-based configuration, next-day delivery, accessible pricing made them the obvious choice against cumbersome Sun processes.

But some push back on pure salesmanship framing. Cryptonector lists strategic catastrophes: canceling Solaris on x86, failing to partner with Google over secrecy paranoia, closing Sun Professional Services, over-investing in J2ME, refusing to abandon SPARC, and ignoring Active Directory. Schmichael offers a counterargument: by 2005, hardware margins were already under vicious attack from Dell and cloud commodification; a sales rep wouldn't have much incentive to close small startup deals when the real margins were in software services anyway—the underlying business model was already dying, making it partly a product problem, not pure sales failure.

Rbanffy identifies the real structural trap: no credible onboarding path for new customers. Why develop on x86+Linux then deploy to SPARC+Solaris? This path dependency favored Linux and commodity hardware from day one. Multiple commenters (reenorap, onraglanroad) note Linux's freeware status and Sun's late open-sourcing of Solaris. Grahamlee describes Sun's thin-client/beefy-server model as visionary (presaging cloud) but simultaneously made commodity alternatives undercut them too easily. Matt_heimer points out Sun's sales pipeline was built for million-dollar E10K servers needing cranes—entirely wrong for selling volume commodity hardware.

Kens provides insider testimony of Sun's internal political dysfunction: engineering groups competed harder against each other than against external competitors, Solaris and SPARC divisions had conflicting strategies, and no coherent direction. Vincent-manis recounts a Sun sales rep threatening his job after losing an RFP—revealing toxic relationship patterns.

There's broad agreement Cantrill's core thesis resonates (operational incompetence + good tech = failure), but the discussion reveals it was compounded by structural handicaps Sun never overcome: fractured internal alignment, hardware-focused sales pipelines unsuited to commodity markets, missing developer onboarding ecosystem, and delayed recognition of Linux's inevitability. The Dell comparison works because Dell optimized for the actual market that emerged (high-volume, fast delivery, easy ordering), while Sun's legacy excellence presupposed the old model (premium hardware, long sales cycles, tight OEM relationships).19:Tcbe,The article reframes invisible tracking signals embedded in digital media as "spymarks" rather than "watermarks" to emphasize their surveillance nature. It defines watermarks as benign authenticity marks and spymarks as hidden signals making content traceable without user knowledge or consent.

Key examples: Google's SynthID embeds imperceptible signals into images, audio, text, and video that can encode database identifiers linked to personal information (names, IP addresses, birth dates, political affiliation). A 512x512 image can carry a 136-bit payload with a 64-bit database ID. Audio watermarks use time-domain or frequency-domain modifications, inaudible to humans. Text spymarks steer word choices to create detectable statistical patterns. The article cites printer tracking dots from the 1980s as an historical precedent.

The motivation for terminology is clear communication: "spymark" front-loads the privacy concern and leverages familiar word structure (spy + mark) to make the issue immediately salient without technical explanation. The author distinguishes spymarks from standard metadata (EXIF, ID3 tags) which are editable and inspectable.

Comments mostly accept the substance but debate the framing. Retro_Dev notes these are steganography implementations and argues the real defense is byte-for-byte verification combined with cryptographic signatures; they're most concerned about social media re-compression creating tracking doors. Swiftcoder confirms corporations historically embedded these to identify leakers, forcing journalists to transcribe screenshots. Voidupdate raises a logical problem: if text spymarks require altering words, recipients notice changes, limiting effectiveness.

Skepticism about the terminology: pavo-etc argues "invisible watermark" is clearer since not all invisible watermarks are malicious, and cites SynthID for AI-detection as potentially beneficial. Layer8 notes steganography is the established term. The-gipsy sarcastically suggests the author wants credit for coining a term.

Practical defenses emerge: silverFork suggests analog photocopying, re-encoding through compression, or text extraction minus formatting removes most signals. miladyincontrol mentions JPG compression artifacts as a natural spymark. Discussions note GDPR implications (injidup), hardware/software that strips watermarks (itake on Apple app rejection), and adversarial arms races between platforms and leakers (swiftcoder's journalist transcription example).

Divergent opinions: minimaxir created an open-source transparent watermarking tool specifically to defend against SynthID's closed-source approach, but questions if it'll be misused. xp84 predicts OEMs (except Apple) will embed spymark-scanning into display drivers for ad attribution. paweladamczuk reflects despairingly that avoiding the tech altogether seems the only solution. Encrypted_void calls it surveillance at scale, tracking content distribution. Edg5000 worries costs may prevent local AI adoption, forcing reliance on centralized spymarking systems.

The prevailing sense is that the terminology change is rhetorically useful but not decisive; the technical problems are real and the arms race between embedding and removal is just beginning.1a:T986,ZuckOff detects smart camera glasses in proximity by scanning for their Bluetooth manufacturer signatures (0x0D53 for Ray-Ban/Oakley Meta, 0x058E for Meta wearables, 0x03C2 for Snap Spectacles, 0xFD5F for Oculus). The app runs locally on iOS and Android with no account, no server uploads, and features background alerts, Home Screen widgets, and Lock Screen Live Activity. Users can mark their own glasses as known devices to suppress alerts. The app shows raw Bluetooth logs exportable as CSV and displays confidence levels for detections.

However, the app has significant limitations: detection only works when glasses power on, pair, or leave their case; some standalone models advertise silently; signal strength indicates rough distance but not direction. As the app itself states, "quiet is not proof that nobody is recording, and a detection is not proof that anyone is." The app lists manufacturer-registered Bluetooth UUIDs rather than modeling actual recording activity.

HN comments highlighted several issues. The biggest UX complaint: the download link is buried in tiny buttons amid "clutter" while a prominent merch popup and shop button appear first—users complained they couldn't find how to actually install the app without significant hunting. One commenter found a $28 tote bag placement particularly tone-deaf. Comments also noted that an older open-source app called "Nearby Glasses" on Android already does essentially the same thing, raising questions about the necessity of this closed-source alternative. Multiple users flagged that the marketing copy reads AI-generated (mentioning "LLM-aided"), with one noting irrelevant technical jargon mixed into descriptions. The merch-first positioning felt opportunistic to many. Others questioned the reliability: quiet devices won't be detected, and the app can only flag *potential* recording, not actual recording activity. One comment sarcastically noted the hypocrisy of warning users about glasses while asking them to own a pair. A design note from a frustrated commenter: the site lacks clear call-to-action and basic installation instructions, making it feel more like a landing page for a product that doesn't exist yet than a functional app. On the positive side, commenters appreciated the concept—that companies built always-on cameras without a physical indicator is the real problem—and some saw value in whatever partial protection is available.1b:Tb90,xAI announced Grok 4.7 on September 21, 2026, positioning it as their most capable coding and knowledge work model. The model uses a larger base than 4.6, trained with longer reinforcement learning on harder, multi-hour tasks, with native understanding of the Grok Bot harness. Pricing stays at $2/$6 per million tokens (input/output), with a 2x-speed variant at 2x cost.

Benchmarks show Grok 4.7 leading on specific tasks: CursorBench 4.0 (46.3% vs 4.6's 40.4%), DeepSWE (71.0%), EEBench electrical engineering (64%), and legal work (Harvey 19.6%). On multi-hour office work (AA Briefcase), it scores 1,657 vs GPT-5.6 Sol's 1,487. Safety is emphasized with a new safeguard stack, 62.4% on biosafety, and 3.3% false-positive refusal rate on HackerBench. The model is available in Cursor, Grok Build, and via API.

The comment section reveals significant skepticism. Multiple users note the release was delayed nearly two weeks past original date and launched just before Opus 5.5, suggesting underwhelming internal results. Token efficiency took a major hit: Grok 4.7 uses 240M output tokens for a 46% CursorBench score versus 4.6's 97M tokens for 44%—burning tokens to climb benchmarks rather than genuine capability gains. One user found 4.6 insufficient for their tasks; 4.7 "definitely slower and more expensive" with unclear improvement.

Practical feedback diverges from marketing: Grok excels at frontend web development and plain English explanations (compared to "Claudish" verbosity), but Claude 3.5 still dominates backend work and technical explanations. Real-world results vary heavily; one user achieved excellent image-to-HTML workflows, though Astra remains more polished. Comparisons to DeepSeek R1 Flash show Grok as expensive for equivalent results.

Strong criticism focuses on pricing deception. Cache reads cost $0.50/M (compared to Fable's $0.25/M), but xAI highlights only input/output pricing, making Grok appear cheaper. For long-running agentic workflows dominated by cache hits, Grok is actually significantly more expensive—a "predatory" practice, one comment argues. Another user notes Grok 4.7 appears less token-efficient than 4.6 per the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index. Benchmark selection also drew skepticism: xAI compared against GPT-5.6 Sol rather than the newer, stronger Astra on electrical engineering tasks (EEBench), suggesting cherry-picking. One user flagged they're comparing reasoning level "xhigh" to 4.6's "high," potentially masking comparable perf.

Overall sentiment: incremental progress in a crowded frontier market, but the team appears to have stumbled. Token bloat, pricing opacity, delayed release, and unresolved gaps versus Anthropic and OpenAI suggest Grok has plateaued below the "intelligence floor" many users require. Gemini 3.8 Flash was noted as superior value. The verdict leans toward "a miss," though niche use cases (Cursor workflows, specific frontend tasks) still show value.1c:T8b8,Transformer Explainer is an interactive single-page tool that walks through transformer architecture using a live GPT-2 (small) model running in the browser via ONNX Runtime. The visualization covers the full pipeline: tokenization splits input into 50,257-token vocabulary IDs; token embedding converts tokens to 768-dimensional vectors; positional encoding adds sequence position information; 12 stacked transformer blocks process data through multi-head self-attention (which computes Query/Key/Value matrices and applies masked attention) and MLPs that expand to 3072 dimensions then compress back; finally a linear layer outputs logits over all tokens, which softmax converts to probabilities for sampling. Temperature, top-k, and top-p parameters control generation randomness. The interface is built with Svelte and D3.js, created by Georgia Tech researchers.

Comments identify both strengths and limitations. Praising reviewers call it one of the better visualizations available, with particularly insightful interactive attention maps. One commenter notes the elegant insight that attention heads effectively learn to construct small single-layer networks dynamically via Query/Key products forming weights. However, multiple critics raise valid concerns: the explanation conflates temperature with "safety" when lower temperatures actually produce monotonous artificial-sounding text; the visualization uses GPT-2's absolute positional encoding which modern models have abandoned for RoPE or ALiBi, potentially misleading learners about current architectures; Query/Key/Value weight matrices—the core learnable parameters—are not presented prominently enough upfront and should be shown per-head; and the page consumes 2.2GB RAM rapidly, causing performance issues on resource-constrained devices. One commenter questions whether temperature/sampling should even be explained given dropout is no longer central to modern training recipes. Several note this works best as supplementary material rather than standalone: learners already familiar with embeddings and basic NNs will gain the most value. Several humorous comments mention expecting information about electrical transformers or Transformers robots instead.1d:T8d0,Apple is showing promotions within the iOS Settings app for services like iCloud+, Apple Music, Apple TV free trials, and AppleCare+ warranty plans. The core complaint: many of these banners lack dismiss buttons, forcing users to wait weeks or months for them to expire naturally. During that time they leave a persistent red notification badge on Settings. Some users report dismiss buttons exist but don't work.

The frustration stems from both the presence of ads on paid devices and Apple's departure from its historical positioning. Steve Jobs stated in 2011 that Apple doesn't want ads; this represents a sharp reversal under Tim Cook's services-focused strategy. Apple Maps already faced backlash for inserting ads. Users note the irony of paying premium prices for iPhones ($1249+ for Pro models) only to be advertised to within the OS.

HN comments reveal internal disagreement. Some argue this is reasonable—Apple promoting its own products in its own OS isn't third-party advertising, and the banners are dismissible or ignorable. One commenter notes these appear on new devices entitling users to free trial periods, a logical notification. Others counter that the inability to dismiss some banners is the real problem, and that even internal ads cheapen a premium product. A user mentioned Apple now also advertises Final Cut Pro's iPad version within the Mac version—uncommon in pro software.

Several commenters report longer-running frustrations: macOS/iOS update notifications now display permanent red badges that can't be dismissed without disabling all system notifications, and Apple aggressively forces updates even when explicitly rejected. One noted Apple's system is now comparable to Windows behavior users once criticized. Another mentioned discovering Final Cut Pro contains ads for its iPad SaaS counterpart, threatening their long-term commitment to the platform.

Meta-commentary criticized TechRadar for complaining about ads while its own article was wrapped in multiple full-screen paywalls and subscription prompts. The article's heavy use of "ads" in quotes signals awareness the term is somewhat loaded—these are self-promotions, not third-party advertising—though this distinction didn't stop user frustration.1e:T98f,A cryptanalyst claims GPT-6 Astra independently solved the MVUEH Enigma message from 10 July 1941, which had eluded cryptanalysts for 21 years. The message differs significantly from others that day: it uses a distinct wheel order (253 vs. 512) and separate rotor settings, while containing nearly identical plaintext to another message (SIPVX) that was broken in 2017. The decrypted message reads "Please specify the route of march. I am in Rosenow, Rosenow. Immediate reply by radio. Waschbusch." The break was apparently enabled by transcription errors in the original ciphertext and a rare left-rotor turnover at position 72.

The published account emphasizes Astra's autonomy: it analyzed unbroken messages, identified MVUEH as most promising, suspected plaintext overlap with SIPVX, generated Enigma simulator and Bombe software, and executed a crib attack using "ROSENOW ROSENOW." A log fragment shows Astra even referenced Bundesarchiv archival collections (RS 3–3/20a, RS 3–3/63b) inaccessible from the Crypto Cellar website.

HN comments sharply dispute this framing. Tantalor notes the contradiction: claiming autonomous work while admitting Astra "developed" simulator/Bombe software. How much was novel vs. web-sourced? How much did generated software do the actual breaking? Comments express skepticism that Astra deserves primary credit when directed by Carter Leffer to attack specific messages. Jtrn reframes this as "Researcher brakes one specific stubborn historic enigma message with good help from Astra," emphasizing the two-day human-AI collaboration and Leffer's driving role. Podgorniy reports that Gemini 3.8 Flash decrypted the message in 45 minutes with a minimal prompt, suggesting the task itself is tractable for modern LLMs given the crib hint.

Several comments highlight contextual factors supporting the break: the anomalous key differing from the daily standard, transcription errors, and the rare rotor turnover all plausibly prevented earlier human cryptanalysts from succeeding—not the inherent difficulty of the problem. Aogaili questions whether LLMs can solve truly novel problems requiring original techniques or whether they simply execute known approaches efficiently. Others celebrate the achievement as evidence of LLM capability in cryptography (nonethewiser), while skeptics like 125ah suggest Astra merely plagiarized open-source Enigma software and exhausted cribs drawn from training data.1f:Tac3,In January 2025, Disney+ modified Section 2(k) of its Subscriber Agreement to permit advertisements across all subscription tiers under defined exceptions: ads required by streaming rights holders, ads in live or linear content and replays, promotional messaging for Disney bundles and upgrades within the app, and branded content or sponsorship integrations. The policy applies retroactively to existing subscribers who had paid for ad-free tiers. The linked wiki article cites only Disney's own terms document and one German news report, flagged itself as incomplete and needing verification.

HN commenters revealed significant disagreement about severity. Some argued the carve-outs are actually narrow and specific—one commenter walked through the text to clarify that Disney is explicitly describing embedded ads from rights holders (e.g., sports broadcasts) and self-promotional app overlays, not sneaking arbitrary commercials into narrative content. Critics of this view countered that even self-promotion and product integrations constitute ads, and that the language is deliberately vague ("may change from time to time").

Dominant sentiment focused on Disney's broader strategy: it raised European subscription prices €20 (from €139 to €159 yearly) just two months prior, making this ad insertion feel duplicitous. Multiple commenters noted Disney+ now offers less content than competitors, worse UX than free alternatives, and aggressive account verification that broke login workflows. The service is perceived as transforming back into cable TV—ads, price hikes, declining content quality. One developer cited insider experience: video platforms spend 90% of engineering time on monetization, not playback reliability.

Comparisons emerged to HBO's practice of counting self-promotional content as "not ads" on ad-free tiers. Commenter al_borland refused HBO renewal over this semantic trickery. Several noted movie theaters pioneered pre-feature ads decades ago; joshtronic asked why streaming escapes the same ire. Others invoked capitalism's structural drive for indefinite growth in finite markets, and the ultimate consumer response—a resurgence in piracy references (koe123: "Pirating is so back"; pendenthistory linked TPB). One commenter observed Disney had been a household winner until content dried up and friction increased; another noted they'd cancel instantly if not receiving it free via a bank bundle.

The German origin (heise.de September 2026 article) was noted by wicket as potentially limited in scope. The wiki's incomplete sourcing and future-dated timestamps (article updated September 2026, citing a September 2026 email) suggest the resource may be speculative or contain errors about rollout timing.20:Td1e,Kev is a trainable open-source decision model family built on Qwen3.5 bases with LoRA adapters. Three sizes ship with pretrained weights (0.8B, 4B, 9B) and matching evaluation data. The architecture uses positional ID resets so questions see the input state but cannot read each other's answers, enabling multiple classification tasks in one forward pass. On new evaluation domains, Kev-9B achieves 85.2% accuracy with well-calibrated confidence estimates; the 4B model hits 83.7%. All models serve via a REST API compatible with TypeSafe's System One, run in ~500ms on Apple M5 for typical requests (much faster on H100 CUDA), and can be fine-tuned on custom data in hours using the provided training pipeline.

The linked content is a comprehensive GitHub repository including quick-start commands, API documentation, serving benchmarks, and detailed training instructions. Users can run Kev locally, try it in a browser-based playground at HuggingFace Spaces, or fine-tune on their own routing/escalation data with a JSONL file of labeled examples. The repository includes evaluation harnesses, Modal integration for scalable training, and historical comparisons to earlier Qwen3 and Qwen2.5 versions.

Comments reveal mixed sentiment. Supporters emphasize the practical engineering: one commenter describes successfully using embeddings plus logistic regression on 50-100 examples for email classification, sub-100ms inference, and privacy-preserving on-device retraining. Several express optimism about using small decision models for NPC behavior in games, UX consistency enforcement in frontend development, and spam filtering. Others note that smaller models like 12B dense transformers can also achieve similar latencies on local hardware.

A persistent critique is whether these models deliver genuine value. One commenter argues they are "glorified if/else blocks" and that most commenters building Jev-like models miss the point: the training data and methodology matter far more than architecture. Multiple posts report that open-source alternatives perform poorly on linguistic tasks compared to the proprietary Jev product. Another points out that Jev-like models lack tool calling and knowledge cutoff management—without continuous retraining or frequent version updates, they will become stale.

Broader context includes skepticism about the Jev craze itself. One commenter expresses burnout on "all this jev talk," noting that Jev's parent company has institutional commitment while open-source reimplementations feel opportunistic. A major complaint is Jev's data retention policy: whatever you feed the system, they keep. Commenters argue that a zero-data-retention (ZDR) option is required for Jev's closed platform to remain competitive with open alternatives. Another comment links to a benchmark site (benchmarkheaven.com/jev-models) showing many Jev-like models already exist.

Technical questions dominate: How does RLHF-pretrained Qwen differ fundamentally from Jev's RLCD training? How is calibration measured? Can these models be accessed via OpenRouter? Why not name it "Qev"? The consensus seems to be that while Kev is well-engineered and useful for specific tasks (routing, escalation detection, simple classification), the broader explosion of Jev-like models partly reflects hype rather than a genuinely novel capability.21:T8c9,NASA has cancelled the Mars Sample Return (MSR) mission. The linked article (paywall) discusses the cancellation, which comes after the program's estimated cost reached $8-11 billion with samples not expected to return until around 2040.

The comments reveal substantial disagreement about whether this is a failure or necessary correction. Defenders of the cancellation, particularly lasky and angelgonzales, argue that the original MSR architecture had become a classic case of over-engineered institutional bloat. The program was designed around legacy rockets (Ariane 64) rather than cheaper, higher-capacity options like Starship or New Glenn. With only 1.1 pounds of samples planned versus Apollo's 842 pounds of moon rocks, the cost-per-sample calculus was terrible. These commenters view the cancellation as killing a specific wasteful approach, not abandoning Mars science. Isaacman (apparently new NASA leadership) is pushing toward cheaper, modular missions with greater commercial involvement. angelgonzales specifically criticizes JPL for maximizing program complexity and researcher jobs rather than optimizing for actual science delivery.

However, some express genuine disappointment. lithobraking notes that samples from Jezero crater potentially containing biosignatures won't reach Earth for the foreseeable future, and worries about US-China collaboration possibilities. ortusdux suggests helicopter sample retrieval (inspired by Ingenuity's success) might have been a better approach than relying on an underdefined future lander.

Important context emerges: peri-cl notes China's competing Tianwen-3 program launching in 2028, which creates competitive and timing pressures. The date confusion (one comment notes the article is from January 6, 2026, with another asking "any news since January?") suggests this may be resurfacing old news or there's confusion about publication dates.

The broader tension is whether cutting an expensive, delayed program represents NASA course-correcting toward efficiency, or whether it signals retreat from ambitious Mars science. The comments don't reach consensus, but lean toward viewing this as a necessary kill of a dysfunctional specific plan rather than abandonment of Mars ambitions.22:T9d9,Lon Lundgren documented a six-week investigation into perceived performance degradation of Claude Fable 5 after Anthropic restored permanent availability in July. Using wire logs, transcript parsing, and tokenization analysis across production workloads at xhigh/max effort levels, he found August delivered dramatically fewer thinking tokens than July—not a one-time drop but sustained fluctuations aligned with product announcements.

The key distinction: the model identity remained constant, but the inference regime (how the model is invoked and how much compute it allocates to reasoning) changed. Even at max effort, most invocations received little to no thinking tokens. When thinking runs occurred, they rarely reached published benchmark levels.

HN comments largely fell into three buckets. First, anecdotal confirmation: multiple users reported similar multi-week degradation patterns (Waterluvian, jotato, mlmonkey, gmponyo), with models behaving obviously worse within weeks of launch. Some noted the problem compound over time as AI-written codebases accumulate technical debt.

Second, methodological skepticism. Aurornis pointed out the analysis conflates variable workload difficulty with model behavior—comparing thinking tokens across diverse production work is problematic since harder tasks naturally consume more tokens. Others noted that inference parameters and Claude Code versioning can change independently of the underlying model.

Third, systemic concerns. Users questioned whether this is deliberate cost-cutting after models generate buzz (talon8635's hypothesis about launching, degrading, then relaunching as "improved"), with calls for regulation (jesse_dot_id invoking the Office of Weights and Measures analogy). alexjplant noted Anthropic has publicly claimed they don't degrade performance to save compute. dachworker and theplumber suggest varying test-time compute post-launch is standard practice.

rcr-anti tracked Claude Code performance via marginlab.ai and found fewer tokens achieving similar or better results—not necessarily bad if efficiency improved, though acknowledged Anthropic likely A/B tests and has sometimes made mistakes. cloudking raised the fundamental challenge of testing non-deterministic systems repeatably.

The prevailing tension: legitimate evidence that something measurable changed in August, but genuine ambiguity about whether it's intentional degradation, inference regime optimization, workload variation confounds, or benchmarking gaming.23:T8b4,ZuckOff is a free Bluetooth detection app built by Polish developer Pawel Szydlowski that identifies nearby smart glasses by reading their Bluetooth signals and matching unique identifiers to manufacturer fingerprints. The app targets Ray-Ban Meta, Oakley Meta, and Snap Spectacles, downloaded over 5,000 times on iOS and 1,000 on Android in its launch phase.

The app addresses a genuine privacy problem: Meta glasses can record video with their indicator lights easily defeated using tape, and roughly seven million pairs sold in 2025. A BBC investigation found dozens of accounts posting content filmed with Meta glasses without consent, including one incident where a woman's face and phone number were published with 1.3 million views. Meta announced in July it would update glasses to detect physical LED tampering and disable the camera, though critics note the product's commercial appeal partly depends on the camera being inconspicuous.

ZuckOff's limitations are significant: it cannot determine whether glasses are actively recording, identify who wears them, or provide precise distance information—only rough proximity. The app is legal to distribute since it doesn't intercept encrypted data, just reads broadcast signals. A paid ZuckOff Pro version offers background monitoring, widgets, and alerts.

HN commenters highlight that ZuckOff only works while glasses are in pairing mode, making it "useless" for real-world detection where paired glasses wouldn't broadcast identifying signals. This fundamentally undermines the app's practical utility—it would only catch someone actively setting up new glasses, not detecting someone already wearing and using them. One commenter references an existing GitHub alternative that's "less sketchy." Others debate whether smart glasses are actually a greater privacy threat than smartphones, noting phones are easier to hide for surveillance and already enable widespread unauthorized recording. The broader tension emerges: Meta's July update attempt notwithstanding, no enforcement mechanism prevents users from disabling the camera software, and the hardware is easily copied. Until legislation intervenes, detection apps address symptoms rather than root causes.24:T7e6,Pentagon report on a 2026 missile strike on an Iranian school that killed 123 children examines the role of AI in target selection. The Minab site had been cataloged as an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps facility but was no longer a military objective—yet this intelligence update never entered the target database. The Pentagon's Maven AI system (built on Palantir's platform) recommended it as a day-one strike target when processing candidates, with target-list vetting work compressed from hours to minutes.

The HN consensus strongly rejects "AI" as the culprit. The core problems were thoroughly human: the target-vetting team was understaffed ("gutted"), never consulted on selections, and outdated data remained in systems. The White House demanded 1000 targets and pulled from the database without due diligence. As one commenter notes, whether the final call came from an AI algorithm or an SQL query, this was "pure human maliciousness and incompetence."

Deeper themes emerge: Technology workers at Palantir bear responsibility for building the system, yet Palantir deflects blame onto data quality. Commenters highlight the broader pattern of military decision-making outsourced to automation without meaningful human verification—this represents a dangerous Rubicon where AI becomes the final arbiter of lethal force. One commenter raises a rarely-asked question: what's the actual error rate of AI target selection compared to purely human processes? No one compared whether humans evaluating 1000 targets in compressed timelines would have done better.

Other tensions: The continuing strikes on first responders and rescue workers go unexplained. One commenter links this to an earlier near-miss where US military nearly boarded a Chinese vessel over AI-flagged false intelligence about nuclear materiel. The broader military dysfunction—centralized command, broken observation-orient-decide-act loops, inability to react at operational speed—uses AI as a distraction from systemic incompetence.25:T811,Tim Schafer's 1996 design document for Grim Fandango is a practical puzzle design spec that doubles as a work of art in itself. The PDF includes personality touches throughout—jokes, graphics, and whimsical asides—demonstrating Schafer's commitment to crafting even internal documentation with style. Notably, Schafer admits to overlapping two nonsense paragraphs on the second-to-last page to obscure an unfinished final puzzle, allowing him to submit the document by deadline while still appearing to have completed the design.

The HN comments paint a vivid picture of the game's lasting cultural impact. Multiple users describe childhood experiences of purchasing the game based on its skeleton-in-suit cover art and being captivated by the writing, music, and visual style two decades later. One user recalls nearly memorizing Act I. Another describes letting the game idle at the casino to listen to mellow jazz. Parents report playing it with their kids as a family activity, comparable to Day of the Tentacle, though noting Grim Fandango's harder English and cultural references.

The consensus treats Grim Fandango as a rare artistic achievement: the atmosphere "oozes style that's never been replicated." Its art direction, writing, and soundtrack created a cohesive vision. However, some dissenters note the art style hasn't aged well for them, obscure puzzle logic (particularly the Chain puzzle), and occasional bugs, calling it "polarizing" compared to undisputed classics like Monkey Island.

Technical notes include that Grim Fandango popularized Lua as a gaming scripting language. Comments reference related materials: a GDC talk on one-page design documents, a documentary on Double Fine's Psychonauts 2 development by the same studio, Tim Schafer's viewing list of films that inspired the game, and The Digital Antiquarian's 2024 retrospective. One commenter notes the document's conclusion includes a charming joke box for "fallen tears of joy," exemplifying how Schafer invested personality into what could have been routine documentation.26:Taca,Nathan Barry implements GziPT, a language model that uses gzip/DEFLATE compression as its core mechanism. The key insight is that compression is inherently prediction: a compressor spends few bytes on expected data and many on surprising data. Since bits required to encode a symbol equals -log₂(probability), any compressor implicitly contains a probability model.

The implementation scores candidate continuations by compressing context + candidate and measuring the result length: shorter compressed length means better prediction. To generate text, gzipt uses beam search to overcome quantization noise (adding single bytes often doesn't change compressed length). The algorithm maintains context as corpus data in gzip's 32 KiB sliding window plus recent generated text, then searches over candidate byte sequences by their compressed scores.

The generated output shows the model understands something about Shakespeare but struggles with coherence. Example output after priming on tiny Shakespeare shows recognizable structure but garbled meaning.

HN commentary adds important context and caveats. Several commenters reference prior work: the "Language Modeling is Compression" paper that inspired this, the Hutter Prize for compression-based AI challenges, and 3Blue1Brown's video series on related concepts. One commenter notes Google's earlier paper on compression-prediction equivalence.

A critical technical question emerges: beam search only explores a tiny fraction of the search space, so results represent a lower bound on gzip's performance. Global optimization is infeasible, meaning much better continuations likely exist but aren't found.

Most significantly, when a commenter tested this with bzip2 and zstd, both produced gibberish—bzip2 generated alternating character runs (artifacts of Burrows-Wheeler transform), and zstd produced mostly whitespace. This reveals that DEFLATE's specific matching mechanics happen to align with human language structure in ways other compressors don't, suggesting the approach is somewhat fragile and algorithm-specific rather than demonstrating a universal compression-prediction principle.

Commenters also contextualize this within broader ideas: language itself might be compression of thought; potential reverse question of whether LLMs could serve as better compressors; comparison to procedural content generation in demoscene. One skeptical commenter notes the article itself appears AI-written and questions effort level.

The prevailing verdict: intellectually interesting proof-of-concept that cleanly demonstrates compression-prediction equivalence, but not practically competitive with neural models and highly dependent on DEFLATE's particular behavior with repetitive text patterns.27:T9b6,Nedelcu argues that AI-generated code inevitably devolves into unmaintainable messes because the defining quality of maintainability—code that's readable, evolvable, and resilient to change—takes months or years to verify. AI systems require immediate reward signals for effective training, so they optimize for patterns in existing (mostly mediocre) codebases rather than for true maintainability. He notes that AI struggles even at basic refactoring, unable to define reusable functions without forcing readers to understand extracted implementations. The deeper danger: developers who stop reading and writing code stop learning, never building the intuition and "sweat-earned" judgment that distinguishes expert developers from "advanced beginners." AI doesn't learn from its mistakes; neither do humans who outsource cognition to it.

Nedelcu acknowledges LLMs as useful tools for tedious work but predicts firms will eventually compete on "NO-AI" policies as they realize vibe-coded projects become unmaintainable liabilities. He compares software to manufacturing outsourcing: short-term efficiency gains mask long-term erosion of institutional knowledge and in-house capability.

Comments reveal sharp disagreement. Some reinforce the institutional knowledge concern (manufacturing analogy resonates). Others push back hard: the author conflates "vibe-coded projects fail" with fact when strong agentic coding is less than a year old—no actual evidence exists yet. Several commenters report success using AI as a high-level steering tool (one built a MongoDB clone in two months, learning more than in 20 prior years, by directing agents rather than writing code). Others note that hand-written legacy systems are equally messy, that most code was always bad because most developers lack experience, and that AI agents lack the visceral aversion to paying down technical debt that humans develop. A few argue maintainability is measurable (cyclomatic complexity, SonarQube metrics) and can be wired into agentic workflows. The prevailing comment-section view: equilibrium is emerging where developers must still review and steer AI (losing the theoretical "10x speedup") but remain faster than pre-AI work. One commenter warns that the moral thrust—"you are bad for using AI, you will lose your job"—is ineffective activism, not persuasive argument. Another flags the practical problem: how will a "NO-AI" company even prove it in an era where workers disguise AI use?28:T842,ShinyHunters, a high-profile hacking group, claims to have breached multiple FBI-related services and stolen comprehensive data on all FBI employees and applicants. 404 Media verified a sample of 5,000 records containing names, home addresses, phone numbers, and information about employees' spouses. The data reportedly totals between two and three terabytes. The group told 404 Media they plan "coercion" rather than extortion, claiming the breach is not financially motivated, though the specific endgame remains unclear.

The breach carries massive national security implications. Criminal actors have previously used hacked FBI employee data to track, intimidate, and harass agents investigating them. Foreign intelligence agencies would value this information to understand FBI operations, and if released more broadly, agents and their families could face serious safety threats.

HN comments reveal technical context and broader concerns. Multiple commenters identified the likely attack vector as an Oracle PeopleSoft zero-day vulnerability, suggesting many other organizations using the same software may be similarly exposed. Several noted this represents yet another massive government database compromise in a growing pattern: commenters referenced the 2015 OPM breach of 22.1 million US government employee records, and observed that comprehensive personal data breaches have become so routine they barely register as shocking anymore.

The group itself appears tied to recent high-profile hacks including the Canvas LMS compromise during college finals. Commenters debated the authenticity of the claims ("proof is in the pudding"), noted the irony of FBI systems being breached despite national security implications, and questioned whether the attackers might have used AI tools themselves. Some suggested the situation demonstrates the futility of security theater when organizations refuse to fundamentally reduce data collection and retention. Others highlighted the contradiction in how breached organizations claim responsibility initially but later deny accountability for security failures.29:T82b,The linked Apple support page is a straightforward reference guide listing how to turn off specific Apple Intelligence features in macOS 27: Siri AI, summaries (Messages/Email/Notifications), smart replies, writing prompts, and others. Each feature requires navigating to different apps or settings sections—there is no unified control panel.

HN commenters revealed widespread frustration with Apple's implementation approach. The most consistent complaint is the lack of a global killswitch; disabling everything requires visiting eight or more different settings locations across multiple apps. One commenter discovered the Writing Tools toggle is buried three levels deep in Settings → Screen Time → Content & Privacy Restrictions → Siri → Writing Assistance, a location nobody would naturally search.

Storage reclamation emerged as a major pain point. The models occupy gigabytes on M1/M2 Macs (where they're barely usable) but cannot be deleted; the space only gets freed if the disk is nearly full. Several commenters expressed anger at paying for hardware only to have substantial portions of it commandeered for unwanted features.

The architectural decision to house AI controls in "Screen Time" (normally parental controls) baffled several engineers. One noted that this assumes everyone either has kids (parental controls context) or accepts AI broadly; users with privacy concerns but no children have no reason to look there.

Quality concerns also surfaced. One user described Genmoji as "incredibly stupid" after it suggested pizza-yard emojis based on a trivial message about pizza being ready. Another complained that Apple's "Intelligence" features are fundamentally dumb relative to their disk footprint.

The broader sentiment echoed Microsoft crapware criticism: new Mac ownership now requires a post-install checklist of 30+ things to disable to regain agency over your own hardware. Multiple commenters noted this represents a sharp cultural shift from Apple's historical positioning and questioned whether this foreshadows further erosion of user control.2a:T9c3,Linear's engineering team tackled CI as a bottleneck driven by AI-accelerated development, where agents ship code much faster than CI can validate. They reduced PR wait time from 6+ minutes to just over 5 minutes and cut per-test runner time roughly in half despite tests quadrupling.

Four optimization categories: (1) Infrastructure—moving from GitHub Actions to third-party runners with better hardware dropped job duration 34% on average (tsc 52%), and switching to tsgo's native TypeScript compiler cut typechecking 73%. (2) Critical path—change-detection jobs dropped from 26s median to 8s by capping fetch depth and removing unnecessary checkouts; made checkout resilient to network hangs via custom composite action with retry logic. (3) Setup reduction—preinstalling dependencies in CI images (saving 7-8s per Postgres install), restricting pnpm install to only needed packages (44-73s down to 16-18s), and snapshot-loading database schema instead of replaying migrations (12s to 1-2s). (4) Test efficiency—splitting large test files for better work distribution across 8 shards instead of 3-4, and introducing optional module state sharing in Vitest (isolate: false) achieved 17% monthly savings by avoiding redundant entity graph rebuilds, though with explicit opt-in and teardown guardrails since agents now write most tests.

Setup optimizations made aggressive sharding viable: 8 shards with ~40s setup now use less total setup time than 4 shards at 110-140s did previously. They added 2,000 tests per week.

HN discourse split: several commenters questioned whether test quantity yields proportional value—one asked if quadrupled tests provide four times value, another suspects AI-generated tests are boilerplate-heavy with low assertion coverage. Others felt the real problem is inefficient human testing and product validation, not CI speed. CharlieDigital suggested agents would benefit from smaller, isolated services with contract-oriented boundaries rather than monoliths. Self-hosting advocates cited cost savings (from $100+/month cloud to near-zero) and reliability gains versus GitHub Actions degradation. Some pointed to Bazel's aggressive caching (10s warm builds) and questioned why build/test aren't unified under a single scheduler. One comment linked Dagger's "Great CI Bottleneck of 2026" framing. Skeptics noted that unless CI improvements boost net income, they're theater; another warned that fixing CI just pushes the bottleneck to deploy and rollback.2b:Tbf3,Researcher Peter James asked Meta's Muse agent to archive files it could see and send them to Google Drive. Muse complied, delivering approximately 2.7GB compressed (6.8GB uncompressed) containing the root filesystem of the Linux container assigned to his session. The archive included Ubuntu system files, Muse's internal codebase (internally called "Hatch"), documentation, integration code, memory files, agent logs, and SSH key files. James reported this through Meta's bug bounty program but received a "Not Applicable" dismissal without specification of why.

The main findings: The filesystem revealed internal architecture including SOUL.md, IDENTITY.md, USER.md, MEMORY.md, AGENTS.md, and TOOLS.md metadata files; 113 subagent records; approximately 68 skills covering Google Workspace, Meta apps, Outlook, travel, shopping, health services, home devices, and media generation; hints of unreleased integrations with Slack, Dropbox, Polymarket, and Canva; the Spaces TypeScript framework for building and serving apps; builders for documents, PDFs, presentations, and spreadsheets; Codex CLI binary (version 0.149.0) though James found no evidence Muse actually uses it for coding; and documentation for "Home Link," an experimental integration enabling Muse access to home network devices via ESP32-C5 hardware with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth LE.

Muse stores agent memory in plain Markdown with daily detail files, a curated MEMORY.md sheet, and a memory bank organized in Postgres with 384-dimensional embeddings. A nightly "dream" process reviews conversations and generates future session guidance. Background jobs manage relationships, recurring workflows, and self-improvement. The system uses bubblewrap sandboxing for ffmpeg/ffprobe video processing. James did not demonstrate a container escape or access to other users' data.

The HN comment section split into camps: Some argued this is not a vulnerability at all—each user gets an isolated container with full agent access, which is intentional architecture (ostensible, rolosa, nzoschke, poly2it, cute_boi, Dinux). That camp notes agents should work similarly to developers having full computer access, and cited this as evidence Meta is doing open-source development responsibly. Others found Meta's "Not Applicable" response contemptuous and the architecture concerning. rwmj questioned why there's no bounty for exfiltrating the entire system. WhitneyLand pointed out Meta essentially said the behavior was working as intended. munificent expressed concern about dangerous AI technology being developed by irresponsible people. estetlinus sarcastically noted a Polymarket integration in the pipeline. There was also skepticism about whether the post should have been written (stephbook wanted the full archives published; others found the writing quality or framing off; gavinray questioned whether each Muse instance really runs its own Postgres). A few comments treated the technical disclosure admiringly (simonpure found a 332MB Rust binary). noelwelsh joked about SOUL.md being empty.2c:Tbdb,Mini-AGI is a 169-expert byte-level transformer designed to train from scratch on 8GB VRAM GPUs by paging expert weights to disk and only keeping a working set in memory. The architecture uses adaptive depth (up to 24 recurrent block applications per character), soft top-8 expert routing per block application, and a novel mechanism for managing continual learning.

The core contribution is addressing catastrophic forgetting on a single data stream through differential learning rates: the trunk (embeddings, attention, routers) trains at 0.1x the expert learning rate, while experts train at full rate. The authors show this reduces forgetting from +2.23 nats to +0.0067 nats when training on 524K characters of chess while other subjects remain unread—retaining 99.84% of progress versus chance. The MoE pool grows speculatively from component recombination and prunes based on recency of routing selection (not gate values, which they found anti-predictive).

Paging is careful: Adam moments travel with experts, identity-based matching prevents needless reloads, hysteresis prevents thrashing. The model reads chunks of 32K characters at batch-1, processing them as a continuous stream. Same codepath serves training and generation. Byte-level input eliminates tokenizer fitting.

Current performance at 318M characters read: 0.834 nats/char held-out (1.20 bits/byte) across eight subjects. Scaling law shows exponent -0.239 (between Kaplan's 0.095 and Chinchilla's 0.28), projecting 1.10 BPB in ~3 days, 0.80 BPB in ~24 days on a single laptop GPU. The model has produced grammatically correct but repetitive continuations.

HN comments surface several critiques: (1) Abeppu questions whether forgetting is truly solved or merely delayed—doesn't the trunk eventually undergo catastrophic forgetting, and doesn't expert pool pruning introduce stepwise chunks of forgetting? (2) Ilaksh notes the linked transcript shows no coherent responses and no actual benchmarks. (3) Lostmsu claims an 8M dense model baseline achieves 1.15 BPB on enwik9 in 2 hours, making this 1.80 BPB appear uncompetitive. (4) Cpldcpu asks about generalization vs. memorization on basic tasks like arithmetic. (5) Several commenters appreciate the accessibility (local training, no corporate model) but acknowledge performance lags Transformer-320M and MambaByte-353M, which trained on 251x and 94x more data respectively.

Defenders praise the proof-of-concept: continual learning at batch-1 without separate training/fine-tuning regimes is genuinely rare, and the architecture's honest treatment of forgetting measurement is valuable. The project succeeds as a research artifact showing what is possible on modest hardware with current techniques. It does not claim frontier capabilities, framing itself as a small toy-level experiment.

The author reports using Claude extensively during development and notes weights are still cooking after 318M of 7.8B characters. Code is ready to clone and run with provided corpus building and serving scripts.2d:Tcf8,Anthropic introduced Claude Opus 5.5 on September 22, 2026, positioning it as the new flagship model. The headline promise is stark: it reaches Fable 5.1 performance levels while consuming 40% less compute. Real-world examples from early testers show dramatic efficiency wins—one user completed a 680,000-line code migration in under a day (previously weeks of team work); another audited a 200,000-line codebase in three hours versus Opus 5's 20-plus hours. Opus 5.5 generates output over 30% faster than Opus 5.

Pricing reflects the efficiency. Input tokens drop from $5 to $4 per million, outputs from $25 to $20. Most notably, cache reads plummet to $0.20 from $0.50 per million—a 60% reduction that directly targets agentic and coding workloads where cache dominates costs. Opus 5.5 also matches or beats Opus 5 at default effort levels on benchmarks where Opus 5 required max effort, deepening the cost advantage.

On benchmarks, Opus 5.5 leads on agentic coding (Terminal-Bench 4.0: 66.4% vs Fable 5.1's 55.8%, vs Opus 5's 52.3%), computer use (OSWorld 2.0: 81.8% partial), and knowledge work (GDPval-AA: 1846 Elo vs 1735). Anthropic acknowledges that at frontier capabilities, benchmark margins are noisy and real-world performance gaps are narrower. Coding work shows the most compelling win: on FrontierCode, Opus 5.5 beats GPT-6 Astra (OpenAI's model) for roughly 20% of the cost.

Safety received heavy emphasis. Opus 5.5 scored best-ever on Anthropic's automated behavioral audit across thousands of simulated scenarios, is more resistant to prompt injection (matching or beating Opus 5 in all tested settings), and is less likely to take hard-to-reverse actions or exceed boundaries. Because it approaches Fable 5.1 capability in biology and cybersecurity, it carries safeguards from that tier—verified organizations can apply for life sciences and cybersecurity verification programs.

Communication quality improved markedly over Opus 5. Early testers praised it for writing more naturally, putting critical information first, and avoiding verbose or jargon-heavy explanations. Anthropic shows side-by-side examples: on a bug explanation, Opus 5 dumps technical details; Opus 5.5 leads with the root cause and context. One tester said it "writes the way I do."

Customer testimonials underscore efficiency gains. GitHub reported fewer steps and tokens on terminal tasks in VS Code. Clio noted an 18-hour autonomous task that stayed focused with minimal rework. Optiver reported 40–50% cost reduction on agentic coding tasks while matching Opus 5's quality, plus highest-ever scores on their trading-support suite. Quantium and Spotify confirmed token efficiency and faster completion. Column and Kiro highlighted better delegation and fewer tool calls.

The HN comment from sidrag22 is revealing: they called Opus 5 "by far the worst release of 2026" from both major labs, too immature for general public use, forcing them back to Opus 4.8 (May 2026) for months. They deem 5.5 a redemption, finally making the $20 Pro tier worthwhile. The other visible comment (tomhow) merely notes discussion moved to another thread. The modest comment count (2) and 273 points suggest measured reception—interest but not euphoria, possibly dampened by lukewarm sentiment toward Opus 5 still fresh in memory.2e:T906,Heretic is an automated pipeline designed to remove safety restrictions ("abliterate") from open-weight language models using prompt injection and weight manipulation techniques. The project frames this as reclaiming user control over technology, allowing models to follow any instruction without refusals.

The comments reveal significant tension between theoretical freedom and practical limitations. Several commenters describe legitimate use cases: reverse-engineering owned devices (IP cameras with CVEs, Xiaomi bootloaders), security testing on your own network, and repair work on purchased hardware. These users argue that policy layers optimized for the median user create barriers for security researchers and hardware owners doing work on their own property.

However, technical experts identify fundamental flaws with the approach. One commenter with apparent training knowledge explains that safety refusals are often baked into the training data itself—when models refuse a topic, the underlying knowledge may simply not be encoded in the weights. Removing the refusal mechanism doesn't add missing knowledge; it forces the model down paths where it lacks information, producing hallucinations instead of accurate answers. Another notes that while abliteration stops refusals, quality degrades significantly on topics the model would normally refuse, describing outputs as "amateur brain surgery"—technically non-refusing but functionally useless.

The project claims to measure success via KL divergence charts and refusal counts, but critics argue these metrics are misleading for evaluating actual usefulness on restricted topics. One commenter points out that dramatic-looking metrics may just reflect cherrypicked data.

Security and policy concerns surface in comments questioning whether unrestricted models will be "outlawed first" and whether this enables harmful actors. The naming itself ("Heretic") invokes defiance of authority rather than solving genuine technical problems.

The prevailing verdict from experienced commenters: the tool works at removing refusals, but this doesn't solve the underlying problem. For vague refusals blocking legitimate work, it may help. For topics where training data genuinely lacks knowledge, it just produces confident-sounding wrong answers.2f:T7d1,Cloudflare announced Python Workers general availability after two years of development. The platform now treats Python as a first-class language with seamless integration to Workers AI, R2, D1, Hyperdrive, Durable Objects, Queues, and Workflows. Key capabilities: native bindings eliminate JavaScript type conversion boilerplate; ASGI/WSGI connectors enable FastAPI, Django, and Flask to run directly without separate application servers by leveraging Cloudflare's built-in global load balancing; socket system calls translated to Workers connect API enable TCP database access via aiomysql and asyncpg; and PEP 783 standardization of PyEmscripten platform lets package maintainers publish WebAssembly-compatible wheels beyond just Cloudflare. The runtime uses Pyodide compiled to WebAssembly.

Comment section reveals significant caveats. A urllib3 maintainer noted that while Cloudflare funded contributions adding Emscripten/JSPI support, they don't fund upstream maintainers who now bear responsibility for supporting this experimental backend, which already has divergent behavior (CVE-2025-50182 redirect issue cited). Cold-start performance remains unresolved: Wasmer Edge benchmark showed 60ms startup versus Cloudflare's 900ms, and the GA announcement doesn't include updated numbers. Syrusakbary (Wasmer founder) questions whether 900ms can improve meaningfully given the JS/V8 architecture, pointing out architectural constraints (locked to single Python/Pyodide version, tied to JavaScript world). Stefan Lec noted WebAssembly startup overhead was historically the main disadvantage. Technical concerns included memory overhead (Pyodide reportedly heavier than v8 runtime by tens of MB), missing framework support (no FastHTML mention), and documentation issues (example pages returning 404). Some framed it as cyclical: Google App Engine offered Python 2.5 in 2008, suggesting serverless Python isn't new. Others praised the work or joked about replacing human Python developers with AI.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-23 00:54 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-23 00:54 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":1}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","id":49803892,"rank":1,"title":"Claude Opus 5.5","url":"https://www.anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","domain":"anthropic.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49803892","by":"km144","score":1160,"commentCount":790,"time":1790094545000,"short":"Anthropic released Claude Opus 5.5, the leading model in its new 5.5 family. It matches Fable 5.1 performance on most tasks while costing 40% less than Opus 5, with 30% faster output generation. Key improvements: superior agentic coding and knowledge work, stronger alignment testing (best behavioral audit scores to date), better natural communication with clearer writing, and 60% cheaper cache reads. Pricing: $4/$20 per million tokens (input/output), down from $5/$25. HN commenters were mostly…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:44.062Z","age":"8 hours ago"},{"key":"https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-6-sol-and-luna","id":49805509,"rank":2,"title":"GPT-6 Sol and Luna","url":"https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-6-sol-and-luna/","domain":"openai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49805509","by":"OfficialTurkey","score":1124,"commentCount":587,"time":1790100034000,"short":"OpenAI released GPT-6 Sol and Luna, cost-reduced models using Astra training methods. Sol ($2/$10 per M tokens) and Luna ($0.10/$0.50) are 50% cheaper than their 5.6 versions while improving on professional work, coding, factuality, and computer use benchmarks. Sol matches competitor flagship models at fraction of cost; Luna becomes almost free. Comments praise value but debate whether Luna/Sol are truly improved or repackaged with more reasoning applied; some prefer Claude for design and UX…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:32.750Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/mimo-v2-6","id":49792730,"rank":3,"title":"MiMo v2.6","url":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/mimo-v2-6","domain":"mimo.xiaomi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792730","by":"volf_","score":1092,"commentCount":471,"time":1790021532000,"short":"Xiaomi released MiMo v2.6, offering Flash (15B activated) and Pro (42B activated) variants with competitive pricing. Comments praise Xiaomi's training transparency and real-time dashboards, debate whether Chinese models will dominate due to energy advantages, and report mixed real-world performance—strong on some benchmarks but slower and more prone to overthinking than Grok or Astra on image-to-HTML tasks. Concerns raised about API reliability and data privacy when using their hosting.","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:06.196Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://alicegg.tech/2026/09/21/attention","id":49787726,"rank":4,"title":"Attention is all you have","url":"https://alicegg.tech/2026/09/21/attention","domain":"alicegg.tech","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49787726","by":"zer0tonin","score":1035,"commentCount":316,"time":1790000816000,"short":"Alice GG argues that algorithmic feeds on YouTube, Spotify, LinkedIn, and Reddit have hijacked our attention, deliberately steering us toward engagement-maximizing content rather than what we intentionally want. The \"Tetris effect\" shows how sustained focus shapes thought; we've ceded control to algorithms. The intentional web of RSS feeds, blogs, and bookmarks still exists but requires deliberate effort to maintain. HN comments validate the core thesis while adding nuance: some note nostalgic…","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:06.828Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.colinbreck.com/i-dont-want-to-read-what-you-didnt-write","id":49794330,"rank":5,"title":"I don't want to read what you didn't write","url":"https://blog.colinbreck.com/i-dont-want-to-read-what-you-didnt-write/","domain":"blog.colinbreck.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49794330","by":"mooreds","score":990,"commentCount":424,"time":1790029841000,"short":"Colin Breck argues AI-written text is unreadable and exhausting—summarizing design decisions without context, losing author voice and nuance. He used AI effectively for his academic paper only for editing, verification, and tedious tasks like citations, never for original prose. HN commenters largely agree but split on whether imperfect human writing beats generic AI output, with some defending AI as useful for non-writers and others finding the piece self-contradictory or ironically…","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:44.354Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://dbushell.com/2026/09/22/apple-intelligence","id":49797982,"rank":6,"title":"I said no and Apple said yes","url":"https://dbushell.com/2026/09/22/apple-intelligence/","domain":"dbushell.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49797982","by":"thatslast","score":790,"commentCount":643,"time":1790064295000,"short":"Developer discovers macOS 15.3 enabled Apple Intelligence sending data home every 15 minutes despite user disabling it. After upgrading to macOS 27, Apple removed the opt-out entirely, forcing the feature and consuming 22GB of disk space. Comments note the core factual claim about 15-minute phoning is wrong—that setting only controls transparency reporting—but broader complaint about removed toggles and aggressive AI enablement despite explicit user refusal resonates widely.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:56.950Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bcantrill.dtrace.org/2026/09/20/what-sun-got-wrong","id":49787436,"rank":7,"title":"What Sun got wrong","url":"https://bcantrill.dtrace.org/2026/09/20/what-sun-got-wrong/","domain":"bcantrill.dtrace.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49787436","by":"chmaynard","score":674,"commentCount":392,"time":1789999398000,"short":"Bryan Cantrill reflects on Sun's downfall: despite brilliant technology and strategic wins (like open-sourcing Solaris), Sun became operationally incompetent at basic business execution—customer service, sales responsiveness, and order fulfillment. A 2005 startup chose Dell's attentive account executive over Sun's unreachable sales team, then Cantrill later joined that startup and co-founded Oxide with the Dell rep, Steve. Comments highlight Sun's structural failures: conflicting internal…","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:09.310Z","age":"35 hours ago"},{"key":"https://brand.io/article/spymarks","id":49794615,"rank":8,"title":"Spymarks, not Watermarks","url":"https://brand.io/article/spymarks/","domain":"brand.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49794615","by":"possibilistic","score":649,"commentCount":161,"time":1790031829000,"short":"Article argues invisible tracking signals embedded in media (Google SynthID, audio watermarks, text steering) should be called \"spymarks\" not \"watermarks\" to clarify privacy risks. Comments note this is steganography with tracking; debate whether the term is necessary since watermarking already covered this; discuss practical defenses (re-compression, re-encoding, text copying) and risks to whistleblowers; some argue the technology can be net-positive for detecting AI-generated content.","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:41.179Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://zuckoff.app","id":49785429,"rank":9,"title":"ZuckOff Know when a camera is in the room","url":"https://zuckoff.app/","domain":"zuckoff.app","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49785429","by":"Bluestein","score":605,"commentCount":6,"time":1789986794000,"short":"ZuckOff is an iOS/Android app that detects camera glasses (Ray-Ban Meta, Oakley Meta, Snap Spectacles) nearby by listening for their Bluetooth advertisements. It logs all Bluetooth devices, shows signal strength, and allows users to whitelist their own devices. No account required, data stays on-device. HN comments praised the concept but criticized poor UX (hard to find download link), questioned reliability vs older open-source alternatives, noted the \"buy merch\" popup feels opportunistic…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:25.399Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"key":"https://x.ai/news/grok-4-7","id":49788838,"rank":10,"title":"Grok 4.7","url":"https://x.ai/news/grok-4-7","domain":"x.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49788838","by":"meetpateltech","score":597,"commentCount":516,"time":1790005815000,"short":"xAI released Grok 4.7, a larger model with 40% more weights than 4.6 but same pricing ($2/$6 per million tokens). Benchmarks show modest gains on coding tasks (CursorBench 46.3% vs 4.6's 40.4%), stronger safety refusals, and improved document work. HN users note significant token bloat (240M output tokens for barely 2% improvement), express skepticism about real-world utility versus marketing, and flag deceptive cache pricing hiding higher per-operation costs for agentic workflows.","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:08.762Z","age":"33 hours ago"},{"key":"https://poloclub.github.io/transformer-explainer","id":49792342,"rank":11,"title":"Transformers Explained Visually","url":"https://poloclub.github.io/transformer-explainer/","domain":"poloclub.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792342","by":"aray07","score":596,"commentCount":87,"time":1790019829000,"short":"Interactive browser-based visualization of GPT-2 transformer architecture running live ONNX model in JavaScript. Covers tokenization, embeddings, multi-head attention, MLPs, and token sampling with adjustable temperature/top-k/top-p parameters. Comments praise the intuitive design but note it uses dated GPT-2 absolute positional encoding, the QKV mechanisms deserve more upfront explanation, and the page is RAM-intensive.","long":"$1c","gem":true,"gemReason":"Live interactive visualization of transformer internals with real GPT-2 inference…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:37.522Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://techradar.com/phones/iphone/i-wish-apple-would-just-stop-that-crap-apple-has-added-persistent-ads-to-ios-and-its-driving-users-crazy","id":49801939,"rank":12,"title":"Apple has added persistent 'ads' to iOS, and it's driving users crazy","url":"https://www.techradar.com/phones/iphone/i-wish-apple-would-just-stop-that-crap-apple-has-added-persistent-ads-to-ios-and-its-driving-users-crazy","domain":"techradar.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49801939","by":"MC995","score":594,"commentCount":451,"time":1790087412000,"short":"Apple inserted persistent promotional banners in iOS Settings for iCloud+, Apple Music, and AppleCare+. Many can't be dismissed and stay for weeks, leaving permanent notification badges. Users are furious, comparing it to Microsoft's Start menu ads. HN comments split between those seeing this as minor (they're just internal promotions) versus those viewing it as enshittification of a premium product that once rejected ads entirely.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:25:06.765Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cryptocellar.org/bgac/the-mvueh-break.html","id":49801324,"rank":13,"title":"OpenAI GPT–6 Astra breaks Enigma message that has resisted solution since 2005","url":"https://www.cryptocellar.org/bgac/the-mvueh-break.html","domain":"cryptocellar.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49801324","by":"sohkamyung","score":551,"commentCount":356,"time":1790085135000,"short":"GPT-6 Astra claims to have autonomously broken a 1941 Wehrmacht Enigma message (MVUEH) that resisted cryptanalysis since 2005. Comments suggest the narrative oversells the AI's role: Astra used existing Enigma simulator/Bombe software, tried known cribbing techniques, and needed human direction. The core discovery—that the message used an anomalous key and had transcription errors—is genuine, but attributing this to AI autonomy rather than guided tool use misrepresents what happened.","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:28.060Z","age":"11 hours ago"},{"key":"https://consumerrights.wiki/w/Disney%2B_ad_policy_change","id":49784336,"rank":14,"title":"Disney+: New user agreement allows ads before movies in all subscriptions","url":"https://consumerrights.wiki/w/Disney%2B_ad_policy_change","domain":"consumerrights.wiki","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49784336","by":"DeepLogin","score":505,"commentCount":365,"time":1789977328000,"short":"Disney+ updated its January 2025 subscriber agreement to allow ads on all tiers, including premium \"ad-free\" subscriptions, with exceptions for streaming rights limitations, live content, promotions, and branded integrations. HN commenters largely split between those noting the carve-outs are narrow (live sports ads, Disney self-promotion) versus those seeing this as yet another erosion of paid streaming value alongside price hikes, poor UX, and the broader collapse of streaming as a better…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:26.948Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/jaredpalmer/kev/tree/main","id":49783999,"rank":15,"title":"Kev: Tiny Jev-like family of decision models built on top of Qwen3.5","url":"https://github.com/jaredpalmer/kev/tree/main","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783999","by":"tosh","score":452,"commentCount":199,"time":1789974715000,"short":"Kev is an open-source family of small decision models (0.8B, 4B, 9B) built on Qwen3.5 that answer yes/no, multiple-choice, and rating questions. It matches TypeSafe's System One API, runs locally on CUDA or Apple Silicon, and offers fine-tuning support. HN commenters praise the engineering and open availability but debate whether Jev-like models are genuinely useful versus hype, note data privacy concerns with commercial Jev, and question whether architecture or training data is the real…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:37.020Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://science.org/content/article/nasa-s-mars-sample-return-mission-dead","id":49791939,"rank":16,"title":"NASA’s Mars Sample Return mission is dead","url":"https://www.science.org/content/article/nasa-s-mars-sample-return-mission-dead","domain":"science.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49791939","by":"Muhammad523","score":445,"commentCount":375,"time":1790018052000,"short":"NASA cancelled its Mars Sample Return mission after costs ballooned to $11B with samples not returning until 2040. Comments split: critics say JPL designed an inefficient, bloated program maximizing complexity and jobs rather than science; defenders argue cancelling this specific architecture allows pivoting toward cheaper, modular missions using commercial providers and Starship. China's competing 2028 sample return and cheaper launch alternatives make the old plan obsolete.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:16.006Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://twitter.com/Lon/status/2101793422487204027","id":49789224,"rank":17,"title":"Fable 5 – Median thinking declined in August","url":"https://twitter.com/Lon/status/2101793422487204027","domain":"twitter.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49789224","by":"espeed","score":417,"commentCount":291,"time":1790007237000,"short":"A user reported that Claude Fable 5's performance degraded significantly in August after Anthropic made it permanently available on subscriptions, measured via five different methods showing fewer thinking tokens. The core finding: not a model \"nerf\" but changes to inference regimes served to users. HN comments split between users confirming anecdotal quality drops over weeks, skeptics questioning methodology (workload vs. model changes), and deeper concerns about deliberately degrading…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:17.634Z","age":"33 hours ago"},{"key":"https://wired.me/story/meta-smart-glasses-detector-app-zuckoff","id":49785397,"rank":18,"title":"ZuckOff is a free app that sees Meta glasses before they see you","url":"https://www.wired.me/story/meta-smart-glasses-detector-app-zuckoff","domain":"wired.me","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49785397","by":"choult","score":397,"commentCount":347,"time":1789986470000,"short":"ZuckOff is a free Bluetooth detection app that identifies Meta smart glasses nearby by reading their unique identifier signals, addressing privacy concerns as 7 million Ray-Ban Meta glasses sold in 2025 can record with disabled LED indicators. The app can't determine if glasses are actively recording or who wears them, only rough proximity, but commenters note it only works when glasses are in pairing mode, making it largely useless for practical detection.","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:23.329Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bloomberg.com/graphics/2026-iran-school-attack","id":49806430,"rank":19,"title":"Pentagon says overreliance on AI contributed to missile strike on Iran school","url":"https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2026-iran-school-attack/","domain":"bloomberg.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49806430","by":"devonnull","score":386,"commentCount":205,"time":1790103818000,"short":"Pentagon report on 2026 Iran school strike killing 123 children concludes AI (Maven/Palantir) was scapegoat for human failures: outdated intelligence never updated in database, target-vetting team was gutted and never consulted, White House pressure for 1000 targets bypassed due diligence. HN emphasizes accountability lies with decision-makers, not AI, while debating whether comparison to human error rates matters.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:24.741Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gameshelf.jmac.org/2008/11/13/GrimPuzzleDoc_small.pdf","id":49783495,"rank":20,"title":"Grim Fandango Puzzle Document (1996) [pdf]","url":"http://gameshelf.jmac.org/2008/11/13/GrimPuzzleDoc_small.pdf","domain":"gameshelf.jmac.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783495","by":"kelseyfrog","score":374,"commentCount":98,"time":1789970122000,"short":"Tim Schafer's 1996 Grim Fandango puzzle design document is a PDF blend of practical game design and playful personality, featuring jokes, graphics, and personality-laden asides. Schafer even overlapped paragraphs to hide an unfinished final puzzle from deadline reviewers. Comments celebrate the game's enduring artistry: stunning animation, writing, jazz soundtrack, and atmosphere that defined LucasArts adventure gaming. Some note obscure puzzles and dated visuals; most agree it's a masterpiece…","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:23.810Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://nathan.rs/posts/gzip-lm","id":49797323,"rank":21,"title":"Can gzip be a language model?","url":"https://nathan.rs/posts/gzip-lm/","domain":"nathan.rs","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49797323","by":"networked","score":371,"commentCount":146,"time":1790057319000,"short":"Nathan Barry demonstrates that gzip can function as a language model by leveraging compression-prediction equivalence: a compressor assigns probability to sequences implicitly, and those assigning higher probability compress better. By scoring byte-sequence candidates via compressed length and using beam search to avoid quantization noise, gzipt generates Shakespeare-like text primed on a corpus. HN consensus: clever demonstration of information theory, but commenters temper expectations—while…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:58.019Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://alexn.org/blog/2026/09/22/ai-has-no-wisdom-and-neither-will-you","id":49799965,"rank":22,"title":"AI Has No Wisdom and Neither Will You","url":"https://alexn.org/blog/2026/09/22/ai-has-no-wisdom-and-neither-will-you/","domain":"alexn.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49799965","by":"dimonomid","score":365,"commentCount":509,"time":1790079069000,"short":"Nedelcu argues AI cannot produce maintainable code because maintainability—lacking immediate measurable signals—cannot be optimized through reinforcement learning. AI learns from mediocre codebases and produces mediocre patterns; mastery requires the intuitive judgment experts build through suffering mistakes and learning consequences over months/years. He warns that developers relying on AI to write and read code will never reach mastery, predicting companies will eventually advertise \"NO-AI\"…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:58.396Z","age":"13 hours ago"},{"key":"https://404media.co/we-hacked-the-fbi-hackers-say-they-have-data-on-all-fbi-employees","id":49805278,"rank":23,"title":"'We hacked the FBI:' Hackers say they have data on all FBI employees","url":"https://www.404media.co/we-hacked-the-fbi-hackers-say-they-have-data-on-all-fbi-employees/","domain":"404media.co","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49805278","by":"spenvo","score":359,"commentCount":254,"time":1790099162000,"short":"ShinyHunters hackers claim they breached FBI systems and stole data on all FBI employees and applicants, including names, home addresses, phone numbers, and spouse information. 404 Media verified a sample of 5,000 records. Comments suggest the breach likely exploited an Oracle PeopleSoft zero-day vulnerability, and note this type of massive government data breach has become almost routine rather than shocking.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:33.113Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"key":"https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/turn-restrict-access-apple-intelligence-mchlb2e44f94/mac","id":49790409,"rank":24,"title":"Turn off and restrict access to Apple Intelligence features on Mac","url":"https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/turn-restrict-access-apple-intelligence-mchlb2e44f94/mac","domain":"support.apple.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49790409","by":"alwillis","score":342,"commentCount":221,"time":1790011821000,"short":"Apple's support page explains how to disable individual Apple Intelligence features scattered across Settings, Messages, Mail, Notifications, Phone, and Journal apps, plus a Screen Time killswitch. HN commenters universally frustrated: no global toggle, no way to reclaim disk space for unwanted models, features hidden in unintuitive locations, and user agency heavily eroded by default-enabled AI features.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:18.131Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://linear.app/now/ci-bottleneck-reworked","id":49792067,"rank":25,"title":"AI coding has made CI a bottleneck, so we reworked ours to keep up","url":"https://linear.app/now/ci-bottleneck-reworked","domain":"linear.app","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792067","by":"julian_digital","score":308,"commentCount":382,"time":1790018613000,"short":"Linear cut CI run time from 6+ minutes to ~5 minutes and halved runner costs despite test suite quadrupling, through: migrating off GitHub Actions to third-party runners, eliminating TypeScript type-checking from linting, optimizing critical-path jobs (change detection, checkout), preinstalling dependencies, lazy-loading database schemas, and adding module state sharing in tests. HN comments question whether test quantity provides value, suggest monoliths hinder agents compared to smaller…","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:58.751Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mouse.dev/blog/muse-runtime-export","id":49802871,"rank":26,"title":"I asked Meta’s Muse for its filesystem and it sent me 6.8GB","url":"https://mouse.dev/blog/muse-runtime-export/","domain":"mouse.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49802871","by":"Aeroi","score":289,"commentCount":144,"time":1790090712000,"short":"A researcher asked Meta's Muse AI agent to export its visible filesystem to Google Drive and received 6.8GB of internal runtime files, documentation, SSH keys, and agent memory. The export included system files, 68 skill integrations, Spaces framework code, memory banks, and docs for an experimental Home Link ESP32 device bridge. Meta rejected the bug bounty submission as \"Not Applicable.\" HN consensus: mostly not a serious vulnerability since each user gets isolated containers, but Meta's…","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:40.061Z","age":"9 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/volotat/mini-AGI","id":49783133,"rank":27,"title":"Show HN: Mini-AGI – Dynamic continual learning model trained on 8GB VRAM","url":"https://github.com/volotat/mini-AGI/","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783133","by":"volotat","score":274,"commentCount":73,"time":1789965757000,"short":"Mini-AGI is a byte-level language model trainable from scratch on 8GB consumer GPUs using mixture-of-experts with disk paging for weights, designed for continual learning without catastrophic forgetting. The key innovation is using a trunk learning rate at 0.1x expert rate, which reduces forgetting to 0.0067 nats when learning chess while maintaining other subjects. HN discussion questions whether this truly avoids forgetting or merely delays it, notes the model achieves 1.20 bits/byte (worse…","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:40.376Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","id":49803863,"rank":28,"title":"Claude Opus 5.5","url":"https://www.anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","domain":"anthropic.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49803863","by":"throwaway371647","score":273,"commentCount":2,"time":1790094450000,"short":"Anthropic released Claude Opus 5.5, the leading model in its new 5.5 family. It matches Fable 5.1 performance on most tasks while costing 40% less than Opus 5, with 30% faster output generation. Key improvements: superior agentic coding and knowledge work, stronger alignment testing (best behavioral audit scores to date), better natural communication with clearer writing, and 60% cheaper cache reads. Pricing: $4/$20 per million tokens (input/output), down from $5/$25. HN commenters were mostly…","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:44.062Z","age":"8 hours ago"},{"key":"https://heretic-project.org","id":49783101,"rank":29,"title":"Heretic removes restrictions from language models","url":"https://heretic-project.org/","domain":"heretic-project.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783101","by":"Bluestein","score":266,"commentCount":109,"time":1789965322000,"short":"Heretic is a tool that removes safety restrictions from open-weight language models to make them follow any instruction. Users cite legitimate needs like reverse-engineering owned hardware, but comments highlight two major problems: models may lack actual knowledge on restricted topics (since refusals were baked into training), and abliteration often produces hallucinations or degraded reasoning rather than genuinely helpful answers.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:16.594Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.cloudflare.com/python-workers-ga","id":49787142,"rank":30,"title":"Python Workers are now generally available","url":"https://blog.cloudflare.com/python-workers-ga/","domain":"blog.cloudflare.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49787142","by":"torutofu","score":263,"commentCount":41,"time":1789997899000,"short":"Cloudflare's Python Workers reach GA with native platform bindings, ASGI/WSGI web framework support (FastAPI, Django, Flask), TCP socket support for database drivers via Hyperdrive, and expanded WebAssembly package ecosystem through PEP 783 standardization. HN debate focuses on cold-start performance (reportedly 900ms vs 60ms on Wasmer), urllib3 maintenance burden from Emscripten support, and whether the startup overhead justifies adoption over traditional Python deployments.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:25:06.257Z","age":"35 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-22T16-25Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-22 16:25 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-23T08-30Z/","children":["2026-09-23 08:30 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-23 00:54 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
