1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-22T08-30Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-22T08-30Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-22T08-30Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Ta23,Xiaomi released MiMo v2.6 with two main variants: Flash with 15B activated parameters from 309B total, and Pro with 42B activated from 1.02T total. The linked page was unavailable, but HN comments reveal the release emphasized transparency—Xiaomi shared a real-time training dashboard and comprehensive technical reports including methodology details and benchmark scores, earning praise for setting a high bar for model release transparency compared to US labs.

Pricing emerges as MiMo's main competitive advantage. Multiple commenters noted the models undercut comparable options despite parameter efficiency claims, with costs roughly 10% that of similar-sized competitors when considering tokens-per-second. One user documented MiMo 2.6 Pro achieving competitive pricing/performance ratios on Artificial Analysis graphs.

Benchmark performance is mixed and contested. On some metrics, Pro-2.6 reportedly leads 1T-parameter model Kimi K3 on 14 of 15 tests. However, comments questioning benchmark validity note suspicious results where Opus 5 outperforms more recent models. Real-world testing showed limitations: one engineer's image-to-HTML conversion found MiMo 2.6 Pro overthought tasks, produced longer generation times (36 minutes vs Astra's 19), and made visual errors (cropped arm on statue) compared to Astra and Grok 4.7.

User experience reports are cautiously positive but reveal infrastructure issues. Users consistently found MiMo a strong earlier model (particularly 2.5 Pro for context efficiency and strategic reasoning), but current API users report timeouts and token inefficiency at medium/high settings on official hosted versions. One user successfully ran it locally at 25-35 tokens/second on DGX hardware.

The broader conversation centered on geopolitical AI competition: several commenters argued China will win the long-term AI race due to energy grid superiority and rapid datacenter expansion, versus US reliance on retrofitting infrastructure. Others noted the commoditization of frontier models and the lack of sustainable moats for OpenAI/Anthropic, viewing Chinese competition as consumer-beneficial.

Practical deployment concerns emerged: users questioned whether MiMo is viable for production use given data privacy ambiguity (Xiaomi claims no training on user data but terms are unclear) and lack of reliable EU/US hosting options with guaranteed quantization transparency. One commenter noted inability to test higher-tier models due to API timeouts, questioning usability. Interest in local deployment was expressed but seemed limited to enthusiasts.13:Tb49,The article frames algorithmic content delivery as attention hijacking. It opens with the Tetris effect—how focused practice rewires perception—then argues that when algorithms decide what appears on our screens, we've surrendered control of our thought patterns. Specific examples: YouTube recommends doomscroll-inducing content over chosen preferences; Spotify inserts AI-generated filler to avoid royalties; LinkedIn buries relevant news under sponsored content; Reddit and other platforms are increasingly polluted with bots and trolls. The author contrasts this with the "intentional internet" of the 1990s-2000s, where you explicitly chose bookmarks, visited specific sites, and had to actively seek out harmful content rather than having it pushed to you. The call is to return to RSS feeds, blogs, and deliberate browsing despite slower, less infinite content.

The comments broadly agree with the critique but add important corrections and disagreements. Several users validate personal experience: cutting social media has improved focus, reading more books, noticing the mindless tab-switching habit. One highly-upvoted comment (econ) points out a historical oversight: browsers could have better preserved bookmark history and offline access, but the infrastructure evolved toward centralized platforms instead. Another (cube00) challenges the nostalgia by noting that Yahoo, Lycos, and MSN homepages were similarly attention-grabbing and packed with clickbait ads—the era wasn't purely intentional, just differently manipulative.

A provocative counterargument (kushbhuwalka) questions whether doomscrolling is actually net-negative, noting Gen Alpha seems cognitively advanced despite or because of constant micro-content consumption, raising the correlation-causation problem. One commenter (zkmon) reframes algorithmic feeds as neutral mirrors of your interests, no different than curating a physical bookshelf. Several laud the value of algorithmic discovery for serendipity (Krei-se admits enjoying YouTube's algorithm for winding down), though they separate that from addiction-designed systems.

Expert and practical consensus emerges: the problem isn't algorithms per se but optimization for engagement metrics that incentivize outrage and infinite scroll. Night_Thastus connects this to advertising's psychological manipulation, and dwb references the predicted shift from "pull" to "push" internet. A few solutions surface: disabling recommendations and following only chosen accounts, using ad blockers, selfhosting, and brick-and-mortar books as attention protection. Several note Hacker News itself as a remnant of intentional internet culture. The prevailing verdict: the author is right that we surrendered agency, but the solution requires individual discipline rather than systemic change—though some suspect regulatory or market corrections may come.14:T809,The author reverse-engineered OpenAI's tracking mechanism in detail. ChatGPT creates a signed JWT identifier on login, exchanges it for a cross-site cookie (__obi) scoped to .openai.com with SameSite=None, then advertiser pixels load OpenAI's SDK which sends the cookie back to OpenAI servers along with page data (URLs, product searches, medical/financial information). The SDK also scrapes identity from the page—email, phone, names from form fields and Google Tag Manager data layers—and sends postal codes in cleartext. Automatic matching is enabled by default for most advertisers, especially financial ones.

The author verified this across 936 advertiser pixels, confirmed it triggers from 12+ major sites (Wayfair, Chewy, Coursera, etc.) and persists for anonymous users. The key issue: OpenAI classifies __obi as an "analytics" cookie under its consent policy, even though it enables behavioral targeting, and users who refuse "marketing" consent still receive it. Other OpenAI cookies are properly blocked by browser security (SameSite=Lax), but __obi is the only one configured for cross-site transmission. OpenAI Support acknowledged the inquiry but did not answer whether the classification is correct.

Comments reinforce that the practice is standard adtech (Facebook pioneered it), but the context is uniquely invasive: people confide sensitive details to AI chat that they'd never put on social media, making the power asymmetry worse. Several note that Firefox, Safari, and Brave block third-party cookies by default or partition cookie jars by context, so the vulnerability is mainly Chrome/Edge users. Others highlight the uncomfortable contradiction that users pay for ChatGPT Plus while being profiled, and point out this deepens filter bubbles and filter-bubble-induced bias in LLM responses. A few mention Gemini likely does the same, and one links to an April 2025 report showing the pixel infrastructure has been growing exponentially. EU privacy legislation is cited as a rare bright spot, though the U.S. remains unprotected.15:T7bf,Alibaba's Qwen team released Qwen-Image-2.1, a 7B-parameter text-to-image diffusion model positioned as significantly more compact than its 20B predecessor. The model is one of the smallest open-weight options available, generating 1MP images in ~5 seconds on RTX4090 hardware.

Key strengths per commenters: exceptional text rendering (better than anything in open-weights, suitable for UI/design generation), native transparency support (unusual in the field), genuine inference speed, and overall capability despite the smaller parameter count. One user running a prompt-to-UI design site found it superior to GPT-4V for text fidelity, though larger prompts occasionally confuse the text encoder. A benchmark comparison showed Qwen-Image-1.0 scored 4/15 on the commenter's GenAI Showdown test, behind Krea2 (6/15) and Ideogram4 (8/15), with new results pending.

Critical issues: The restrictive commercial license explicitly forbids commercial use without separate licensing—a sharp departure from Qwen-Image-1.0's Apache license. This disappointed many who were surprised Qwen released weights at all after previous licensing shifts. Several commenters noted the license is largely unenforceable and widely ignored in practice.

Quality concerns: Reliability with prompt following is inconsistent (one user found it produced broken 3D text instead of following composition directions). VAE artifacts persist (slight dot patterns in mid-values make it unsuitable for production work per one commenter). The model doesn't match their proprietary Qwen3 image model, which is already aging.

Broader context: Commenters noted local image generation has outpaced local code generation in capability/quality ratio, and praised Qwen's overall model diversity relative to other labs. One observation highlighted that a 7B model now renders CJK text better than Windows. The enthusiasm is tempered by concerns about cherry-picked examples and lack of transparency around failure modes.16:T1391,The Snowden archive's last published document came on 29 May 2019 via the Intercept. Snowden distributed copies of roughly 50,000-plus documents (Greenwald later said "hundreds of thousands") across multiple journalists and institutions: Poitras, Gellman, Greenwald, the Guardian's Ewen MacAskill, with copies subsequently flowing to Der Spiegel, New York Times, ProPublica, Washington Post, and the Intercept. Yet for seven years afterward, nothing emerged despite both Poitras (in 2022) and Greenwald (in 2023) confirming the archives still exist and contain material of "enormous contemporary and historical significance."

The article meticulously documents how each outlet either stopped or never fully published. The Guardian received approximately 58,000 documents but published only about 26—roughly 0.05%. After the June 2013 revelations, UK authorities issued D Notices (voluntary but effective censorship requests) and exerted steady pressure. In July 2013, three Guardian executives destroyed their London-based computers under the watch of GCHQ technicians—a move editor Alan Rusbridger later called "purely symbolic" since copies had moved to New York. The Guardian subsequently began systematically consulting with UK and US intelligence before publication. By February 2014, after just nine months, the Guardian ceased publishing documents, though it continued analyzing them internally and sharing with partners.

Rusbridger characterized the arrangement with intelligence agencies as collaborative: Air Vice-Marshal Andrew Vallance (who issued D Notices) eventually attended the Guardian's morning editorial meetings. When challenged about unpublished material, Rusbridger imposed an internal edict that reporting must focus on surveillance and privacy, not wartime intelligence uses—a restriction that reportedly prevented publication of documents about Afghanistan, Iraq, and Kenya. Notably, Der Spiegel and the Intercept continued publishing documents into 2015 and 2019 respectively, contradicting the "waning interest" explanation: Der Spiegel made international headlines with their stories, and the Guardian itself won a Pulitzer for the reporting, while the paper simultaneously became the world's leading serious English-language news website, with Rusbridger attributing the rise to exactly the kind of security and civil liberties coverage the archive enabled.

Washington Post's Barton Gellman built an extraordinarily secure facility for the archive—air-gapped machines, high-security safes, compartmentalized keys—but published only about 30 documents (0.06%). By late 2015, he and technologist Ashkan Soltani stopped working on stories. Gellman later told Poitras the material went into "cold storage" because the "opsec needed to share it with anyone else is too hard to deal with."

New York Times and ProPublica received material from the Guardian under written conditions restricting use to surveillance/civil liberties topics, not wartime intelligence. Both stopped publishing in August 2015 after a substantial joint investigation, immediately after Rusbridger left his editorship. Jacob Appelbaum documented that the Guardian held "ProPublica in a gag"—preventing publication of documents about Afghanistan, Iraq, and serious war crimes.

The Intercept, under Glen Greenwald and later under Laura Poitras, was the outlier, publishing nearly 100 pieces and maintaining access longer than others. However, in March 2019 it abruptly closed its archive and released a final batch in May, then ceased entirely. No outlet has explained why, and attempts to get responses from Guardian, ProPublica about current access, approval requirements, or remaining copies were either evasive or unmet.

The article hints at darker explanations: Appelbaum in 2016 sharply criticized the Guardian for allowing government line-by-line redactions of material barely worth redacting, asking rhetorically whether they became mere stenographers. Rusbridger's own account in his 2018 book simply notes coverage "died down" with no explanation of who decided to stop, when, or why—the only major event in his Snowden chapter lacking clear attribution.

HN comments divided on causes. Some cited shifted Overton windows: mass surveillance is now normalized in discourse, making the documents less shocking. Others blamed Snowden's 2013 refuge in Russia, which reframed him from martyr to national security leaker. Several pointed to structural media failures: the "responsible disclosure" framework may have been weaponized by intelligence agencies to prevent publication while appearing cooperative. One commenter noted the irony that these same documents would now prevent "Flock" (facial recognition systems) from shocking anyone, while ongoing surveillance tech gets less scrutiny. Another suggested institutional capture: the Guardian's systematic collaboration with UK intelligence, the slow strangulation of reporting through meetings with officials, the appointment of a…17:Ta33,AX is a declarative control plane purpose-built for agentic workloads, released by Google. The core premise is that agents represent a new computing paradigm distinct from microservices or batch jobs—they're stateful, bursty, accumulate state, call model APIs, and risk burning money in loops. AX abstracts four primitives: Tasks (isolated execution in sandboxes with CPU/memory limits), Workspaces (git repos, MCP servers, skills setup via YAML or plain English goals), Gateways (network policies with explicit allowlists for hosts/ports), and Models (centralized config for LLM parameters and secrets). The platform runs on Agent Substrate and claims to scale to billions of concurrent tasks with sub-second suspend/resume cycles and dense multiplexing so idle agents don't waste resources.

The demo shows YAML-based task definition, SSH access into running tasks, suspension/resumption, and workspace state persistence. AX supports generative workspace setup where you describe an environment in English and an agent automatically provisions it. The page emphasizes ergonomics for developers and researchers, supporting interactive coding agents, long-running servers, Jupyter notebooks, and headless browser testing.

Comments reveal substantial skepticism about utility and messaging. Several users note the website fails to clearly explain what problems AX solves. The "Google's" attribution is disputed—multiple commenters point out this appears to be a passion project by Googlers rather than an officially-backed Google product, making the marketing misleading. One commenter compares it unfavorably to simply running agents on VMs with snapshots. Others question whether AX offers real advantages over alternatives like LangGraph, OpenAI's Agents API, or existing internal solutions (one example links an Apoxy framework with similar functionality). Multiple complaints focus on YAML configuration overhead ("Kubernetes for agents") and lack of visibility into workflow progress.

A core tension emerges: most commenters acknowledge the problem space (agent orchestration, sandboxing, scaling) is real and unsolved, but doubt AX's solution is compelling enough to justify adoption over simpler approaches or existing tools. One experienced voice argues the actual hard problem isn't running agents but identifying state changes (is the agent waiting, stuck, or done?). The demo itself drew mockery for only showing pause/resume actions. Several note the proliferation of similar tools and frameworks suggests the problem isn't yet sufficiently understood to have converged on a standard solution.18:T105a,Colin Breck expresses frustration with AI-generated writing in business and technical contexts. His core complaint: people who rarely write now produce extensive documents using AI, creating verbose, context-free text that exhausts readers. Design docs become mechanical summaries rather than proposals for consensus-building. Pull requests detail every change without explaining why. Personal messages become impersonal despite AI's attempt to nuance them. He cites a Cynthia Dunlop survey showing 78% of readers stop reading articles they perceive as AI-assisted, and 71% avoid those authors, with 98% preferring authentic human writing.

Breck distinguishes sharply between using AI as a reader versus writer. When you prompt an AI, you have context and can quickly filter output. Readers of that same text have no context and must parse every line, turning reading into exhausting work. Writing requires vulnerability and relationships that AI cannot replicate.

However, Breck describes excellent AI use in his recent academic paper. He wrote every paragraph himself in LaTeX but used AI to verify technical accuracy against source code and logs, find spelling and grammar errors, simplify unclear sentences, create TikZ diagrams, and complete citations. The one thing AI wrote unchanged: the abstract, the "most terse, mechanical, inhuman" part. Never once was it valuable to ask AI to write paragraphs from context—always unpleasant and inaccurate.

Breck argues certain kinds of writing resist mechanization: poetry, literature, humor, and narrative work where meaning isn't direct. Systems engineering, incident response, and security work involve uncertainty and discovery that summaries destroy. He quotes Iain McGilchrist: "The more important something is, the more we have to struggle in the attempt to reduce it to language." Narrative resists compression; attention to detail is the opposite of summary.

He concludes intentional writing will become more valuable. People who write to think deeply will continue; non-writers will use AI to produce volume. He worries about a feedback loop where the tools available shape the questions we ask, gradually training ourselves to think in ways that machines can answer.

HN comments split several ways. Many agree strongly. zmmmmm rejects PRs bloated with AI justification—the investment to read it exceeds the value when they could write the change themselves. Agentlien praises human "hand-crafted" articles as increasingly rare and valuable. bajnokk notes AI-written text removes subtle linguistic cues of human uncertainty that readers use to assess trustworthiness.

Others push back. gfody argues the perspective is elitist, excluding people who struggle to articulate thoughts without AI's help. They point out workshopping with AI can help non-writers express genuine ideas they otherwise couldn't communicate. earthnail agrees in principle but notes that heavy iterative prompting ("write like a human, not a robot") can yield readable output. benrutter suggests the real problem is AI converting bullet points into fake prose—if people just polished bullet lists instead, verbose AI text wouldn't feel deceptive.

Some commenters find the piece self-refuting or ironic. jmcgough wonders if it's a troll given the phrase "isn't just difficult—it is punishing" sounds AI-generated. almondfestival makes the same observation. Reason077 and 0c3ca83 note the irony of criticizing AI writing on a platform full of AI-written content. A few suggest the discourse is becoming repetitive (cjlm) or that LLMs will soon master writing anti-AI articles (kingcauchy).

muzani claims LLM writing quality has actually dropped recently, contrary to Breck's suggestion it's plateaued, citing disappoint with Claude Sonnet 4.5. Others note AI quality varies enormously by model and prompt quality—Max-q and addisonj argue strong guidelines and iterative refinement can produce readable work.

The strongest consensus: human voice, uncertainty, and imperfection matter. The sharpest disagreement: whether this excludes non-writers unfairly or whether those people should write differently, accepting their authentic struggle.19:T986,ZuckOff detects smart camera glasses in proximity by scanning for their Bluetooth manufacturer signatures (0x0D53 for Ray-Ban/Oakley Meta, 0x058E for Meta wearables, 0x03C2 for Snap Spectacles, 0xFD5F for Oculus). The app runs locally on iOS and Android with no account, no server uploads, and features background alerts, Home Screen widgets, and Lock Screen Live Activity. Users can mark their own glasses as known devices to suppress alerts. The app shows raw Bluetooth logs exportable as CSV and displays confidence levels for detections.

However, the app has significant limitations: detection only works when glasses power on, pair, or leave their case; some standalone models advertise silently; signal strength indicates rough distance but not direction. As the app itself states, "quiet is not proof that nobody is recording, and a detection is not proof that anyone is." The app lists manufacturer-registered Bluetooth UUIDs rather than modeling actual recording activity.

HN comments highlighted several issues. The biggest UX complaint: the download link is buried in tiny buttons amid "clutter" while a prominent merch popup and shop button appear first—users complained they couldn't find how to actually install the app without significant hunting. One commenter found a $28 tote bag placement particularly tone-deaf. Comments also noted that an older open-source app called "Nearby Glasses" on Android already does essentially the same thing, raising questions about the necessity of this closed-source alternative. Multiple users flagged that the marketing copy reads AI-generated (mentioning "LLM-aided"), with one noting irrelevant technical jargon mixed into descriptions. The merch-first positioning felt opportunistic to many. Others questioned the reliability: quiet devices won't be detected, and the app can only flag *potential* recording, not actual recording activity. One comment sarcastically noted the hypocrisy of warning users about glasses while asking them to own a pair. A design note from a frustrated commenter: the site lacks clear call-to-action and basic installation instructions, making it feel more like a landing page for a product that doesn't exist yet than a functional app. On the positive side, commenters appreciated the concept—that companies built always-on cameras without a physical indicator is the real problem—and some saw value in whatever partial protection is available.1a:Tdcd,Cantrill argues Sun's fundamental problem wasn't strategy or technology but boredom with executing the mechanics of business. He illustrates this with a viral 2005 blog post from a startup running OpenSolaris that wanted to buy Sun hardware: Sun couldn't get a sales rep to answer the phone or pitched wrong products, while Dell's account executive "Steve" closed the deal in two weeks, handled leasing without personal guarantees, and made the startup feel genuinely served. That blog resonated deeply with Cantrill, then starting Fishworks in an abandoned Sun office; he realized no company can succeed while bored with operational execution, no matter how good its strategy. Sun lasted a few more years but couldn't recover. Cantrill later joined that startup and years later co-founded Oxide with Steve from Dell.

The HN discussion adds rich context and complications. Several former Sun employees (coreyh, ggm, kens) confirm the sales nightmare—endless quote revisions, forced live meetings, vastly more expensive than commodity alternatives. Multiple commenters describe the Dell contrast: web-based configuration, next-day delivery, accessible pricing made them the obvious choice against cumbersome Sun processes.

But some push back on pure salesmanship framing. Cryptonector lists strategic catastrophes: canceling Solaris on x86, failing to partner with Google over secrecy paranoia, closing Sun Professional Services, over-investing in J2ME, refusing to abandon SPARC, and ignoring Active Directory. Schmichael offers a counterargument: by 2005, hardware margins were already under vicious attack from Dell and cloud commodification; a sales rep wouldn't have much incentive to close small startup deals when the real margins were in software services anyway—the underlying business model was already dying, making it partly a product problem, not pure sales failure.

Rbanffy identifies the real structural trap: no credible onboarding path for new customers. Why develop on x86+Linux then deploy to SPARC+Solaris? This path dependency favored Linux and commodity hardware from day one. Multiple commenters (reenorap, onraglanroad) note Linux's freeware status and Sun's late open-sourcing of Solaris. Grahamlee describes Sun's thin-client/beefy-server model as visionary (presaging cloud) but simultaneously made commodity alternatives undercut them too easily. Matt_heimer points out Sun's sales pipeline was built for million-dollar E10K servers needing cranes—entirely wrong for selling volume commodity hardware.

Kens provides insider testimony of Sun's internal political dysfunction: engineering groups competed harder against each other than against external competitors, Solaris and SPARC divisions had conflicting strategies, and no coherent direction. Vincent-manis recounts a Sun sales rep threatening his job after losing an RFP—revealing toxic relationship patterns.

There's broad agreement Cantrill's core thesis resonates (operational incompetence + good tech = failure), but the discussion reveals it was compounded by structural handicaps Sun never overcome: fractured internal alignment, hardware-focused sales pipelines unsuited to commodity markets, missing developer onboarding ecosystem, and delayed recognition of Linux's inevitability. The Dell comparison works because Dell optimized for the actual market that emerged (high-volume, fast delivery, easy ordering), while Sun's legacy excellence presupposed the old model (premium hardware, long sales cycles, tight OEM relationships).1b:Tb90,xAI announced Grok 4.7 on September 21, 2026, positioning it as their most capable coding and knowledge work model. The model uses a larger base than 4.6, trained with longer reinforcement learning on harder, multi-hour tasks, with native understanding of the Grok Bot harness. Pricing stays at $2/$6 per million tokens (input/output), with a 2x-speed variant at 2x cost.

Benchmarks show Grok 4.7 leading on specific tasks: CursorBench 4.0 (46.3% vs 4.6's 40.4%), DeepSWE (71.0%), EEBench electrical engineering (64%), and legal work (Harvey 19.6%). On multi-hour office work (AA Briefcase), it scores 1,657 vs GPT-5.6 Sol's 1,487. Safety is emphasized with a new safeguard stack, 62.4% on biosafety, and 3.3% false-positive refusal rate on HackerBench. The model is available in Cursor, Grok Build, and via API.

The comment section reveals significant skepticism. Multiple users note the release was delayed nearly two weeks past original date and launched just before Opus 5.5, suggesting underwhelming internal results. Token efficiency took a major hit: Grok 4.7 uses 240M output tokens for a 46% CursorBench score versus 4.6's 97M tokens for 44%—burning tokens to climb benchmarks rather than genuine capability gains. One user found 4.6 insufficient for their tasks; 4.7 "definitely slower and more expensive" with unclear improvement.

Practical feedback diverges from marketing: Grok excels at frontend web development and plain English explanations (compared to "Claudish" verbosity), but Claude 3.5 still dominates backend work and technical explanations. Real-world results vary heavily; one user achieved excellent image-to-HTML workflows, though Astra remains more polished. Comparisons to DeepSeek R1 Flash show Grok as expensive for equivalent results.

Strong criticism focuses on pricing deception. Cache reads cost $0.50/M (compared to Fable's $0.25/M), but xAI highlights only input/output pricing, making Grok appear cheaper. For long-running agentic workflows dominated by cache hits, Grok is actually significantly more expensive—a "predatory" practice, one comment argues. Another user notes Grok 4.7 appears less token-efficient than 4.6 per the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index. Benchmark selection also drew skepticism: xAI compared against GPT-5.6 Sol rather than the newer, stronger Astra on electrical engineering tasks (EEBench), suggesting cherry-picking. One user flagged they're comparing reasoning level "xhigh" to 4.6's "high," potentially masking comparable perf.

Overall sentiment: incremental progress in a crowded frontier market, but the team appears to have stumbled. Token bloat, pricing opacity, delayed release, and unresolved gaps versus Anthropic and OpenAI suggest Grok has plateaued below the "intelligence floor" many users require. Gemini 3.8 Flash was noted as superior value. The verdict leans toward "a miss," though niche use cases (Cursor workflows, specific frontend tasks) still show value.1c:Ta1d,Pirate Face creates a decentralized P2P infrastructure for open-source AI models. Every Apache-2.0 or MIT licensed model from Hugging Face gets converted to a BitTorrent with a web-seed pointing to the original HF file. While models exist on HF, downloads pull straight from there (same speed). When HF removes a model, the torrent falls back to peer seeding, kept alive by contributors. All files carry their official HF SHA-256 hash so downloads are checksum-verified—you can't get tampered weights from the swarm.

The platform includes user handle claims (reserved on Pirate Face, optionally verified against matching HF accounts for a badge), a leaderboard with points for claimed handles, rescued models, and referrals, and promises a future drop-in API where setting HF_ENDPOINT=https://pirateface.co swaps the backend without code changes.

HN comments revealed several tensions. The name "Pirate Face" draws skepticism—several users note it sounds sinister and that models are legal to distribute, so why brand it that way? A counterpoint emerged: BitTorrent is the sensible distribution method and was used by major studios (Steam, Blizzard) before CDN pricing fell.

On abliteration: one commenter (wren6991) argued abliterated weights are unnecessary—you can apply refusal vectors at runtime to unmodified weights, a technique already supported by tools like DS4, and that re-quantizing abliterated weights partially restores refusal anyway. Another (Scaled) noted the site sidesteps email collection demands from abliterated model publishers. However, grommz pointed out no uncensored models are seeded yet.

Critical feedback included that the signup flow is overcomplicated (forcing X claims to reserve handles), that the submission UI doesn't yet allow specifying HF as an upstream source when submitting peer-only magnets, and that the site silently depends on HF for verification and backstopping despite rhetoric about independence. One user noted that torrent creation per-model requires undocumented steps.

Licensing concerns surfaced: jamienk asked whether "censorship-free permanence" respects copyright licenses, or if authoritarian governments weaponizing copyright could force takedowns that Pirate Face then honors. The site currently respects MIT/Apache-2.0 only plus one exception (Kimi-K3).

The verdict was broadly positive on the core idea (torrents should distribute heavy models), but skeptical on execution: naming, incomplete tooling for community submission, and unresolved tensions between decentralization rhetoric and remaining HF dependence.1d:T72c,Samsung will double high-bandwidth memory (HBM) production next year, scaling from ~180k to 250k monthly wafers. HBM4 and HBM4E chips will comprise 80% of output versus 40% today. The expansion relies on increasing outsourced glass carrier cleaning 2.5-fold to 50k sheets monthly—glass carriers temporarily support wafers during thinning and drilling, critical steps that prevent cracking when stacking multiple dies to extreme thinness for HBM's performance. Samsung began HBM4 mass production in February using 10nm sixth-gen DRAM with 4nm base die; HBM4E samples reached customers like Nvidia in May.

Comments highlight three main tensions. First, memory supply: commenters note this production surge likely redirects existing DRAM capacity toward HBM rather than building new fabs, exacerbating consumer DRAM shortages and price inflation. One notes DRAM costs have tripled in recent years—Samsung faces no oversupply risk because AI buyers have "crazy money," making HBM vastly more profitable than commodity DDR5. Second, geopolitical: a detailed comment explains China's Huawei Ascend production is bottlenecked by CXMT's HBM capacity not processors, since HBM manufacturing steps like die thinning, via drilling, and plating equipment face U.S. sanctions. Chinese yields are currently poor on shorter stacks even after developing parallel tooling. Third, bubble risk: multiple comments express skepticism that AI demand will sustain, predicting oversupply will follow and leave Samsung holding inventory. However, one counters that memory gluts historically depress prices via substitution effects, eventually making DRAM affordable again. The article itself is translated from Korean business reporting; no major factual corrections appear in comments, though sentiment skews toward consumer concerns over industry trends.1e:T88d,Sen. Elizabeth Warren introduced bipartisan legislation with 12 co-sponsors to ban for-profit corporations, including private equity funds and insurance companies, from owning medical practices. The bill also prohibits management-services organizations from controlling practices. It includes three enforcement mechanisms: FTC action, state attorneys general suits on behalf of residents, and physician private right of action with treble damages for violations, plus mandatory divestment requirements.

The article emphasizes rising physician corporate employment (62% in 2019 to 82% in 2026) paralleling massive PE investment growth ($5 billion in 2000 to $104 billion in 2024). Research correlates PE ownership with worse patient outcomes and higher costs, especially in nursing homes. The bill was inspired by Oregon's 2026 corporate practice law, already used successfully by Eugene physicians to block a takeover. Healthcare plan costs are expected to rise 11% per worker in 2027 unless benefits are cut.

The comment section revealed substantive disagreement about the policy's wisdom. One commenter requested a steelman of PE involvement, noting traditional downsides are well-known but upsides for non-investors unclear. A key counterargument emerged: banning PE might backfire by forcing centralization into large nonprofit hospital systems, which already dominate. The most sophisticated critique suggested leverage limits might be more effective than outright bans—preventing PE from using extreme debt to extract profits quickly while still allowing private capital access. Another commenter noted that medicine's inability to repossess products (unlike autos) forces upfront cash payment, making external capital crucial for innovation and access. One Australian brought real-world evidence: Brookfield/Healthscope's hospital degraded so severely a child died, supporting restrictions. Others were skeptical enforcement would work against determined PE with unlimited lobbying resources. One comment highlighted Australia and Europe seeing similar PE infiltration and urged preventative action before "the system falls apart into a degraded, predatory dystopian US system."1f:Tac3,In January 2025, Disney+ modified Section 2(k) of its Subscriber Agreement to permit advertisements across all subscription tiers under defined exceptions: ads required by streaming rights holders, ads in live or linear content and replays, promotional messaging for Disney bundles and upgrades within the app, and branded content or sponsorship integrations. The policy applies retroactively to existing subscribers who had paid for ad-free tiers. The linked wiki article cites only Disney's own terms document and one German news report, flagged itself as incomplete and needing verification.

HN commenters revealed significant disagreement about severity. Some argued the carve-outs are actually narrow and specific—one commenter walked through the text to clarify that Disney is explicitly describing embedded ads from rights holders (e.g., sports broadcasts) and self-promotional app overlays, not sneaking arbitrary commercials into narrative content. Critics of this view countered that even self-promotion and product integrations constitute ads, and that the language is deliberately vague ("may change from time to time").

Dominant sentiment focused on Disney's broader strategy: it raised European subscription prices €20 (from €139 to €159 yearly) just two months prior, making this ad insertion feel duplicitous. Multiple commenters noted Disney+ now offers less content than competitors, worse UX than free alternatives, and aggressive account verification that broke login workflows. The service is perceived as transforming back into cable TV—ads, price hikes, declining content quality. One developer cited insider experience: video platforms spend 90% of engineering time on monetization, not playback reliability.

Comparisons emerged to HBO's practice of counting self-promotional content as "not ads" on ad-free tiers. Commenter al_borland refused HBO renewal over this semantic trickery. Several noted movie theaters pioneered pre-feature ads decades ago; joshtronic asked why streaming escapes the same ire. Others invoked capitalism's structural drive for indefinite growth in finite markets, and the ultimate consumer response—a resurgence in piracy references (koe123: "Pirating is so back"; pendenthistory linked TPB). One commenter observed Disney had been a household winner until content dried up and friction increased; another noted they'd cancel instantly if not receiving it free via a bank bundle.

The German origin (heise.de September 2026 article) was noted by wicket as potentially limited in scope. The wiki's incomplete sourcing and future-dated timestamps (article updated September 2026, citing a September 2026 email) suggest the resource may be speculative or contain errors about rollout timing.20:Td1e,Kev is a trainable open-source decision model family built on Qwen3.5 bases with LoRA adapters. Three sizes ship with pretrained weights (0.8B, 4B, 9B) and matching evaluation data. The architecture uses positional ID resets so questions see the input state but cannot read each other's answers, enabling multiple classification tasks in one forward pass. On new evaluation domains, Kev-9B achieves 85.2% accuracy with well-calibrated confidence estimates; the 4B model hits 83.7%. All models serve via a REST API compatible with TypeSafe's System One, run in ~500ms on Apple M5 for typical requests (much faster on H100 CUDA), and can be fine-tuned on custom data in hours using the provided training pipeline.

The linked content is a comprehensive GitHub repository including quick-start commands, API documentation, serving benchmarks, and detailed training instructions. Users can run Kev locally, try it in a browser-based playground at HuggingFace Spaces, or fine-tune on their own routing/escalation data with a JSONL file of labeled examples. The repository includes evaluation harnesses, Modal integration for scalable training, and historical comparisons to earlier Qwen3 and Qwen2.5 versions.

Comments reveal mixed sentiment. Supporters emphasize the practical engineering: one commenter describes successfully using embeddings plus logistic regression on 50-100 examples for email classification, sub-100ms inference, and privacy-preserving on-device retraining. Several express optimism about using small decision models for NPC behavior in games, UX consistency enforcement in frontend development, and spam filtering. Others note that smaller models like 12B dense transformers can also achieve similar latencies on local hardware.

A persistent critique is whether these models deliver genuine value. One commenter argues they are "glorified if/else blocks" and that most commenters building Jev-like models miss the point: the training data and methodology matter far more than architecture. Multiple posts report that open-source alternatives perform poorly on linguistic tasks compared to the proprietary Jev product. Another points out that Jev-like models lack tool calling and knowledge cutoff management—without continuous retraining or frequent version updates, they will become stale.

Broader context includes skepticism about the Jev craze itself. One commenter expresses burnout on "all this jev talk," noting that Jev's parent company has institutional commitment while open-source reimplementations feel opportunistic. A major complaint is Jev's data retention policy: whatever you feed the system, they keep. Commenters argue that a zero-data-retention (ZDR) option is required for Jev's closed platform to remain competitive with open alternatives. Another comment links to a benchmark site (benchmarkheaven.com/jev-models) showing many Jev-like models already exist.

Technical questions dominate: How does RLHF-pretrained Qwen differ fundamentally from Jev's RLCD training? How is calibration measured? Can these models be accessed via OpenRouter? Why not name it "Qev"? The consensus seems to be that while Kev is well-engineered and useful for specific tasks (routing, escalation detection, simple classification), the broader explosion of Jev-like models partly reflects hype rather than a genuinely novel capability.21:Tcbe,The article reframes invisible tracking signals embedded in digital media as "spymarks" rather than "watermarks" to emphasize their surveillance nature. It defines watermarks as benign authenticity marks and spymarks as hidden signals making content traceable without user knowledge or consent.

Key examples: Google's SynthID embeds imperceptible signals into images, audio, text, and video that can encode database identifiers linked to personal information (names, IP addresses, birth dates, political affiliation). A 512x512 image can carry a 136-bit payload with a 64-bit database ID. Audio watermarks use time-domain or frequency-domain modifications, inaudible to humans. Text spymarks steer word choices to create detectable statistical patterns. The article cites printer tracking dots from the 1980s as an historical precedent.

The motivation for terminology is clear communication: "spymark" front-loads the privacy concern and leverages familiar word structure (spy + mark) to make the issue immediately salient without technical explanation. The author distinguishes spymarks from standard metadata (EXIF, ID3 tags) which are editable and inspectable.

Comments mostly accept the substance but debate the framing. Retro_Dev notes these are steganography implementations and argues the real defense is byte-for-byte verification combined with cryptographic signatures; they're most concerned about social media re-compression creating tracking doors. Swiftcoder confirms corporations historically embedded these to identify leakers, forcing journalists to transcribe screenshots. Voidupdate raises a logical problem: if text spymarks require altering words, recipients notice changes, limiting effectiveness.

Skepticism about the terminology: pavo-etc argues "invisible watermark" is clearer since not all invisible watermarks are malicious, and cites SynthID for AI-detection as potentially beneficial. Layer8 notes steganography is the established term. The-gipsy sarcastically suggests the author wants credit for coining a term.

Practical defenses emerge: silverFork suggests analog photocopying, re-encoding through compression, or text extraction minus formatting removes most signals. miladyincontrol mentions JPG compression artifacts as a natural spymark. Discussions note GDPR implications (injidup), hardware/software that strips watermarks (itake on Apple app rejection), and adversarial arms races between platforms and leakers (swiftcoder's journalist transcription example).

Divergent opinions: minimaxir created an open-source transparent watermarking tool specifically to defend against SynthID's closed-source approach, but questions if it'll be misused. xp84 predicts OEMs (except Apple) will embed spymark-scanning into display drivers for ad attribution. paweladamczuk reflects despairingly that avoiding the tech altogether seems the only solution. Encrypted_void calls it surveillance at scale, tracking content distribution. Edg5000 worries costs may prevent local AI adoption, forcing reliance on centralized spymarking systems.

The prevailing sense is that the terminology change is rhetorically useful but not decisive; the technical problems are real and the arms race between embedding and removal is just beginning.22:T8b4,ZuckOff is a free Bluetooth detection app built by Polish developer Pawel Szydlowski that identifies nearby smart glasses by reading their Bluetooth signals and matching unique identifiers to manufacturer fingerprints. The app targets Ray-Ban Meta, Oakley Meta, and Snap Spectacles, downloaded over 5,000 times on iOS and 1,000 on Android in its launch phase.

The app addresses a genuine privacy problem: Meta glasses can record video with their indicator lights easily defeated using tape, and roughly seven million pairs sold in 2025. A BBC investigation found dozens of accounts posting content filmed with Meta glasses without consent, including one incident where a woman's face and phone number were published with 1.3 million views. Meta announced in July it would update glasses to detect physical LED tampering and disable the camera, though critics note the product's commercial appeal partly depends on the camera being inconspicuous.

ZuckOff's limitations are significant: it cannot determine whether glasses are actively recording, identify who wears them, or provide precise distance information—only rough proximity. The app is legal to distribute since it doesn't intercept encrypted data, just reads broadcast signals. A paid ZuckOff Pro version offers background monitoring, widgets, and alerts.

HN commenters highlight that ZuckOff only works while glasses are in pairing mode, making it "useless" for real-world detection where paired glasses wouldn't broadcast identifying signals. This fundamentally undermines the app's practical utility—it would only catch someone actively setting up new glasses, not detecting someone already wearing and using them. One commenter references an existing GitHub alternative that's "less sketchy." Others debate whether smart glasses are actually a greater privacy threat than smartphones, noting phones are easier to hide for surveillance and already enable widespread unauthorized recording. The broader tension emerges: Meta's July update attempt notwithstanding, no enforcement mechanism prevents users from disabling the camera software, and the hardware is easily copied. Until legislation intervenes, detection apps address symptoms rather than root causes.23:T9d9,Lon Lundgren documented a six-week investigation into perceived performance degradation of Claude Fable 5 after Anthropic restored permanent availability in July. Using wire logs, transcript parsing, and tokenization analysis across production workloads at xhigh/max effort levels, he found August delivered dramatically fewer thinking tokens than July—not a one-time drop but sustained fluctuations aligned with product announcements.

The key distinction: the model identity remained constant, but the inference regime (how the model is invoked and how much compute it allocates to reasoning) changed. Even at max effort, most invocations received little to no thinking tokens. When thinking runs occurred, they rarely reached published benchmark levels.

HN comments largely fell into three buckets. First, anecdotal confirmation: multiple users reported similar multi-week degradation patterns (Waterluvian, jotato, mlmonkey, gmponyo), with models behaving obviously worse within weeks of launch. Some noted the problem compound over time as AI-written codebases accumulate technical debt.

Second, methodological skepticism. Aurornis pointed out the analysis conflates variable workload difficulty with model behavior—comparing thinking tokens across diverse production work is problematic since harder tasks naturally consume more tokens. Others noted that inference parameters and Claude Code versioning can change independently of the underlying model.

Third, systemic concerns. Users questioned whether this is deliberate cost-cutting after models generate buzz (talon8635's hypothesis about launching, degrading, then relaunching as "improved"), with calls for regulation (jesse_dot_id invoking the Office of Weights and Measures analogy). alexjplant noted Anthropic has publicly claimed they don't degrade performance to save compute. dachworker and theplumber suggest varying test-time compute post-launch is standard practice.

rcr-anti tracked Claude Code performance via marginlab.ai and found fewer tokens achieving similar or better results—not necessarily bad if efficiency improved, though acknowledged Anthropic likely A/B tests and has sometimes made mistakes. cloudking raised the fundamental challenge of testing non-deterministic systems repeatably.

The prevailing tension: legitimate evidence that something measurable changed in August, but genuine ambiguity about whether it's intentional degradation, inference regime optimization, workload variation confounds, or benchmarking gaming.24:T8c9,NASA has cancelled the Mars Sample Return (MSR) mission. The linked article (paywall) discusses the cancellation, which comes after the program's estimated cost reached $8-11 billion with samples not expected to return until around 2040.

The comments reveal substantial disagreement about whether this is a failure or necessary correction. Defenders of the cancellation, particularly lasky and angelgonzales, argue that the original MSR architecture had become a classic case of over-engineered institutional bloat. The program was designed around legacy rockets (Ariane 64) rather than cheaper, higher-capacity options like Starship or New Glenn. With only 1.1 pounds of samples planned versus Apollo's 842 pounds of moon rocks, the cost-per-sample calculus was terrible. These commenters view the cancellation as killing a specific wasteful approach, not abandoning Mars science. Isaacman (apparently new NASA leadership) is pushing toward cheaper, modular missions with greater commercial involvement. angelgonzales specifically criticizes JPL for maximizing program complexity and researcher jobs rather than optimizing for actual science delivery.

However, some express genuine disappointment. lithobraking notes that samples from Jezero crater potentially containing biosignatures won't reach Earth for the foreseeable future, and worries about US-China collaboration possibilities. ortusdux suggests helicopter sample retrieval (inspired by Ingenuity's success) might have been a better approach than relying on an underdefined future lander.

Important context emerges: peri-cl notes China's competing Tianwen-3 program launching in 2028, which creates competitive and timing pressures. The date confusion (one comment notes the article is from January 6, 2026, with another asking "any news since January?") suggests this may be resurfacing old news or there's confusion about publication dates.

The broader tension is whether cutting an expensive, delayed program represents NASA course-correcting toward efficiency, or whether it signals retreat from ambitious Mars science. The comments don't reach consensus, but lean toward viewing this as a necessary kill of a dysfunctional specific plan rather than abandonment of Mars ambitions.25:T8b8,Transformer Explainer is an interactive single-page tool that walks through transformer architecture using a live GPT-2 (small) model running in the browser via ONNX Runtime. The visualization covers the full pipeline: tokenization splits input into 50,257-token vocabulary IDs; token embedding converts tokens to 768-dimensional vectors; positional encoding adds sequence position information; 12 stacked transformer blocks process data through multi-head self-attention (which computes Query/Key/Value matrices and applies masked attention) and MLPs that expand to 3072 dimensions then compress back; finally a linear layer outputs logits over all tokens, which softmax converts to probabilities for sampling. Temperature, top-k, and top-p parameters control generation randomness. The interface is built with Svelte and D3.js, created by Georgia Tech researchers.

Comments identify both strengths and limitations. Praising reviewers call it one of the better visualizations available, with particularly insightful interactive attention maps. One commenter notes the elegant insight that attention heads effectively learn to construct small single-layer networks dynamically via Query/Key products forming weights. However, multiple critics raise valid concerns: the explanation conflates temperature with "safety" when lower temperatures actually produce monotonous artificial-sounding text; the visualization uses GPT-2's absolute positional encoding which modern models have abandoned for RoPE or ALiBi, potentially misleading learners about current architectures; Query/Key/Value weight matrices—the core learnable parameters—are not presented prominently enough upfront and should be shown per-head; and the page consumes 2.2GB RAM rapidly, causing performance issues on resource-constrained devices. One commenter questions whether temperature/sampling should even be explained given dropout is no longer central to modern training recipes. Several note this works best as supplementary material rather than standalone: learners already familiar with embeddings and basic NNs will gain the most value. Several humorous comments mention expecting information about electrical transformers or Transformers robots instead.26:T811,Tim Schafer's 1996 design document for Grim Fandango is a practical puzzle design spec that doubles as a work of art in itself. The PDF includes personality touches throughout—jokes, graphics, and whimsical asides—demonstrating Schafer's commitment to crafting even internal documentation with style. Notably, Schafer admits to overlapping two nonsense paragraphs on the second-to-last page to obscure an unfinished final puzzle, allowing him to submit the document by deadline while still appearing to have completed the design.

The HN comments paint a vivid picture of the game's lasting cultural impact. Multiple users describe childhood experiences of purchasing the game based on its skeleton-in-suit cover art and being captivated by the writing, music, and visual style two decades later. One user recalls nearly memorizing Act I. Another describes letting the game idle at the casino to listen to mellow jazz. Parents report playing it with their kids as a family activity, comparable to Day of the Tentacle, though noting Grim Fandango's harder English and cultural references.

The consensus treats Grim Fandango as a rare artistic achievement: the atmosphere "oozes style that's never been replicated." Its art direction, writing, and soundtrack created a cohesive vision. However, some dissenters note the art style hasn't aged well for them, obscure puzzle logic (particularly the Chain puzzle), and occasional bugs, calling it "polarizing" compared to undisputed classics like Monkey Island.

Technical notes include that Grim Fandango popularized Lua as a gaming scripting language. Comments reference related materials: a GDC talk on one-page design documents, a documentary on Double Fine's Psychonauts 2 development by the same studio, Tim Schafer's viewing list of films that inspired the game, and The Digital Antiquarian's 2024 retrospective. One commenter notes the document's conclusion includes a charming joke box for "fallen tears of joy," exemplifying how Schafer invested personality into what could have been routine documentation.27:T840,Cherny frames six steps he applies to all problems: understanding available information, gathering missing information, defining the problem clearly, designing a simple approach, defining a goal, and acting urgently while iterating as new data emerges. He emphasizes that clarity in steps 3 and 4 are critical, and that being wrong is valuable because it forces redefinition and faster learning.

The comment section is harsh. Critics note the framework is unremarkable basic problem-solving repackaged without novelty. A common complaint: why is urgency built into step 6 for all problems? Detractors suggest this creates perpetual urgency culture, burning out teams. Hnrobert42 and others question the ordering—why define the goal after devising approach in step 4?—and whether step 5 adds anything if a clear problem statement already implies goals.

The sharpest criticism comes from alasano, who points out that despite claiming to love being wrong, Claude Code (which Cherny is associated with as Anthropic VP) has critical unaddressed bugs for months, including 15-20% of Fable messages being invisible to users. If "users can't see messages the agent sends" doesn't warrant urgent fixes, the humility rings hollow. joduplessis echoes: people who say they're often wrong rarely sound like they actually believe it. serjester notes the post offers zero concrete examples of Cherny admitting error and changing course, making it feel like self-congratulation.

Positive voices (otterley, trunnell) compare it favorably to Amazon's writing and decision-making culture, and emphasize that nailing problem definition is indeed a hidden skill. trunnell adds that most effective people he's worked with excel at "accurately naming the problem."

Other comments note it mirrors standard engineering problem-solving (averynicepen), mock the corporate platitude tone (lopatin, stopthe), and question whether a $400K/year person needs this guidance spelled out (bluegatty). A few suggest his communication style has absorbed LLM smoothness from heavy Claude Code usage, making him sound less authentically human.28:Ta86,Author claims MCP (released November 2024 by Anthropic) was designed when LLMs were primitive and incapable of agentic workflows. The protocol addressed context bloat through platforms like Composio and MintMCP offering gateway patterns. However, models have improved dramatically. They now execute code, reason about codebases, write scripts composing multiple services, and can call undocumented APIs. Claude Code and similar systems make terminal access superior to MCP servers. LLMs discovered they can invoke --help to discover CLIs without needing MCP intermediaries. Author proposes deleting most MCP servers and standardizing direct HTTP API use via new headers like Accept: text/markdown and Accept-Language for programming language preferences.

Comments reveal fundamental disagreement. Several experts emphasize MCP's non-technical value: (1) Permission boundaries—agents don't get direct API keys; (2) Audit logging of what agents access; (3) One-click marketplace installation for non-developers in ChatGPT/Claude apps; (4) Enterprise governance and credential rotation without exposing keys to agents; (5) Dynamic tool discovery without requiring agents relearn APIs repeatedly. simonw highlights this directly: MCP solves control, authentication, UI, and auditing problems that full-access terminal agents don't. CharlieDigital notes the author misses enterprise context—teams need secret management, access revocation, multiple runtime stacks, and compliance logging that CLI-based solutions don't provide. whazor points out MCPs are already winning in plugin marketplaces where business users with no terminal knowledge can install services. teliskr describes practical success building custom MCPs that create email designs from CMS data without exposing internal systems. Commenters also highlight emerging agent-optimized CLI alternatives (Grafana's gcx), but acknowledge they assume agents have terminal access and proper documentation. docheinestages asks what non-terminal agents should do. dmix notes MCP popularity stems partly from marketplace distribution, not technical merit. Some agreement exists on specifics: bob1029 shows curl + jq covers frontier models well. boredumb suggests simple machine-readable API routes work. Multiple commenters worry about standardizing new header semantics (Accept-Language for programming language) rather than working through proper standards committees. The prevailing verdict: MCP may be overcomplicated for solo developers with terminal-access agents and clean APIs, but enterprise use cases around governance, non-technical UX, and credential isolation keep it essential. Terminal agents are the exception, not the rule.29:T82b,The linked Apple support page is a straightforward reference guide listing how to turn off specific Apple Intelligence features in macOS 27: Siri AI, summaries (Messages/Email/Notifications), smart replies, writing prompts, and others. Each feature requires navigating to different apps or settings sections—there is no unified control panel.

HN commenters revealed widespread frustration with Apple's implementation approach. The most consistent complaint is the lack of a global killswitch; disabling everything requires visiting eight or more different settings locations across multiple apps. One commenter discovered the Writing Tools toggle is buried three levels deep in Settings → Screen Time → Content & Privacy Restrictions → Siri → Writing Assistance, a location nobody would naturally search.

Storage reclamation emerged as a major pain point. The models occupy gigabytes on M1/M2 Macs (where they're barely usable) but cannot be deleted; the space only gets freed if the disk is nearly full. Several commenters expressed anger at paying for hardware only to have substantial portions of it commandeered for unwanted features.

The architectural decision to house AI controls in "Screen Time" (normally parental controls) baffled several engineers. One noted that this assumes everyone either has kids (parental controls context) or accepts AI broadly; users with privacy concerns but no children have no reason to look there.

Quality concerns also surfaced. One user described Genmoji as "incredibly stupid" after it suggested pizza-yard emojis based on a trivial message about pizza being ready. Another complained that Apple's "Intelligence" features are fundamentally dumb relative to their disk footprint.

The broader sentiment echoed Microsoft crapware criticism: new Mac ownership now requires a post-install checklist of 30+ things to disable to regain agency over your own hardware. Multiple commenters noted this represents a sharp cultural shift from Apple's historical positioning and questioned whether this foreshadows further erosion of user control.2a:T1045,Published in 2026, Po-Shen Loh's guest post on Terence Tao's blog addresses why humans must remain at the helm of mathematics despite AI's accelerating capabilities. The core argument: AI systems like modern LLMs operate via incomprehensible decision-making (unlike predictable old code), making them fundamentally untrustworthy. As AI becomes more powerful, the number of critical infrastructure "control points" requiring oversight explodes (banking, water systems, power grids, military). These aren't optional—they demand expert human judgment. This creates a paradox: advancing AI generates more jobs requiring domain mastery than humanity can fill, forcing AI development to slow.

Loh anchors this in an explicit axiom: "We should help humanity flourish." Without it, non-mathematicians have no reason to fund pure mathematicians when AI could generate proofs faster and more reliably. But with it, we see research direction itself as needing human steering toward human benefit.

The post cites troubling near-term incidents: ~700 rogue AI agents breached Hugging Face; white-hat hackers with basic Claude subscriptions broke OpenAI's repository. These foreshadow "bot swarm" scenarios and catastrophic hacking via adaptive AI viruses. Loh suggests this risk profile will force labs to slow voluntarily or be compelled to by disasters.

HN comments reveal sharp disagreement:

Supporters credit Loh for articulating genuine alignment concerns and extending them beyond AI-safety circles to knowledge institutions. The Library of Babel reference (information without understanding is meaningless) resonates.

Critics attack the core logic: Only one species of humans exists, so the observation about inter-species power relations is vacuous. Others note "control points" will themselves be automated; humans can't scale to inspect every decision. Some argue math needs no external justification—mathematicians explore because discovery is intrinsically meaningful, not because society needs them to steer AI. The axiom itself gets questioned: why assume humans should prioritize human flourishing over, say, flourishing of all sentience?

Deeper skepticism emerges on factual grounds. The Hugging Face breach is treated as evidence of dangerous emergent capability, but one commenter argues it's more likely a trained/encouraged demonstration designed to support calls for regulatory oversight just before IPO—fitting a "barely constrained superweapon" narrative too perfectly to be coincidental. Another notes Loh calls Navier-Stokes solved but cites lack of expertise; that OpenAI solved a "Millennium Prize variant," not the actual prize-winning formulation. One physicist argues modern AI is still fundamentally brute-force pattern matching trained on human-generated internet text, not true reasoning.

On employment dynamics, critics highlight that Loh conflates temporary job creation with permanent structural need. Like chimpanzees observing human civilization, eventually that complexity is also automated. The observation that "not enough people exist to fill jobs" assumes those jobs remain necessary and can't be consolidated or automated further—questionable over decades.

Teaching and tenure discussions split HN: some endorse valuing teaching alongside research; others note this assumes universities will adopt such axioms, which they historically haven't.

A recurring theme: pure mathematicians are overconfident about the importance of human input. One commenter (claiming to be "in the field") warns non-specialists misunderstand mathematics entirely, yet the post itself trades in familiar arguments about discovery and novelty that sound profound but may not capture what makes mathematics resilient. Another suggests democratizing access to mathematical thinking via AI tools might reduce the elite gatekeeping that has characterized pure math academia.

The post's framing as a guest blog also drew note: the original appeared on Po-Shen Loh's personal blog; Tao republished it. This amplifies reach but muddies whether the mathematical community broadly endorses the argument or whether it reflects two high-profile voices.2b:T999,Singapore's National Library Board launched ReadSG in September 2026, a five-year national reading campaign targeting phone-dependent citizens. The mechanic is simple: log at least 15 minutes of reading daily on a government platform and earn 20 virtual coins; 1,000 coins equal S$1, meaning one daily session yields roughly S$0.02. Fifty consecutive days of reading nets one Singapore dollar. A parallel "Read for Good" track adds communal motivation: all participants collectively targeting 7.5 million reading minutes unlocks a S$150,000 charitable donation. The National Library Board frames the payout as a deliberate behavioral nudge, not an income stream, building on a decade of literacy initiatives starting with Singapore's 2016 National Reading Movement.

HN commenters exposed fundamental tensions with the approach. One user questioned the actual mechanics of verification: without a reading-detection device, how do they confirm you're actually reading versus gaming the log? This creates an uncomfortable paradox—the initiative seems to require phone engagement to track phone avoidance. Others noted the payout is trivial (S$0.02 per session, S$1 per 50 days) and unlikely to motivate anyone not predisposed to read; supporters of behavioral economics say even tiny incentives work, but skeptics point out friction remains high. A key insight: the real gamification mechanics are familiar (streaks, leaderboards, limited-edition prizes, prize draws), with micropayments being the headline-grabbing overlay rather than the core driver.

Multiple commenters shared context: one avid reader explained he reads exclusively on Kindle because he can enlarge text and track his place—reading medium matters more than incentives. Another raised the philosophical concern that incentivizing reading transforms an intrinsic motivation into an extrinsic one, potentially undermining long-term habit formation. The broader sentiment: Singapore is trying to compete with notification-driven apps by adding gamification and token rewards to reading, but commenters questioned whether S$0.02 and digital streaks genuinely shift behavior at population scale versus simply creating a veneer of engagement. One commenter invoked Milton's Areopagitica, arguing the point should be internal desire to read, not external carrots. Some suggested deeper solutions: reduce work weeks, build third places, give people genuine free time rather than micropayments.2c:Tbdb,Mini-AGI is a 169-expert byte-level transformer designed to train from scratch on 8GB VRAM GPUs by paging expert weights to disk and only keeping a working set in memory. The architecture uses adaptive depth (up to 24 recurrent block applications per character), soft top-8 expert routing per block application, and a novel mechanism for managing continual learning.

The core contribution is addressing catastrophic forgetting on a single data stream through differential learning rates: the trunk (embeddings, attention, routers) trains at 0.1x the expert learning rate, while experts train at full rate. The authors show this reduces forgetting from +2.23 nats to +0.0067 nats when training on 524K characters of chess while other subjects remain unread—retaining 99.84% of progress versus chance. The MoE pool grows speculatively from component recombination and prunes based on recency of routing selection (not gate values, which they found anti-predictive).

Paging is careful: Adam moments travel with experts, identity-based matching prevents needless reloads, hysteresis prevents thrashing. The model reads chunks of 32K characters at batch-1, processing them as a continuous stream. Same codepath serves training and generation. Byte-level input eliminates tokenizer fitting.

Current performance at 318M characters read: 0.834 nats/char held-out (1.20 bits/byte) across eight subjects. Scaling law shows exponent -0.239 (between Kaplan's 0.095 and Chinchilla's 0.28), projecting 1.10 BPB in ~3 days, 0.80 BPB in ~24 days on a single laptop GPU. The model has produced grammatically correct but repetitive continuations.

HN comments surface several critiques: (1) Abeppu questions whether forgetting is truly solved or merely delayed—doesn't the trunk eventually undergo catastrophic forgetting, and doesn't expert pool pruning introduce stepwise chunks of forgetting? (2) Ilaksh notes the linked transcript shows no coherent responses and no actual benchmarks. (3) Lostmsu claims an 8M dense model baseline achieves 1.15 BPB on enwik9 in 2 hours, making this 1.80 BPB appear uncompetitive. (4) Cpldcpu asks about generalization vs. memorization on basic tasks like arithmetic. (5) Several commenters appreciate the accessibility (local training, no corporate model) but acknowledge performance lags Transformer-320M and MambaByte-353M, which trained on 251x and 94x more data respectively.

Defenders praise the proof-of-concept: continual learning at batch-1 without separate training/fine-tuning regimes is genuinely rare, and the architecture's honest treatment of forgetting measurement is valuable. The project succeeds as a research artifact showing what is possible on modest hardware with current techniques. It does not claim frontier capabilities, framing itself as a small toy-level experiment.

The author reports using Claude extensively during development and notes weights are still cooking after 318M of 7.8B characters. Code is ready to clone and run with provided corpus building and serving scripts.2d:T971,The EPA announced on September 14, 2026 that it is rescinding the 2024 Carbon Pollution Standards, which required existing coal plants and new gas plants to capture 90% of carbon emissions or shut down by 2039. The repeal eliminates most limits on power plant carbon emissions and represents a major Trump administration rollback of climate regulation.

The 2024 standards would have reduced carbon pollution by an estimated 1.38 billion metric tons through 2047 and prevented 1,200 deaths and 360,000 asthma attacks in 2035 alone by reducing sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and fine particulate matter. The EPA cited $370 million in regulatory cost savings but did not quantify public health costs. Notably, the agency also proposed removing all remaining greenhouse gas emissions requirements for power plants and in 2025 revoked its 2009 finding that greenhouse gases endanger public health, undermining the legal foundation for federal emissions regulation.

Comment analysis reveals three broad camps. Economic critics argue the move is strategically foolish: solar and wind costs continue falling while gas remains competitive only if externalities are ignored; building new coal plants represents a sunk cost dead-end; the US cedes soft power by appearing hostilely anti-climate while other nations accelerate decoupling from fossil fuels; and energy security depends on renewable transition, not fossil fuel lock-in. One commenter argues oil dependence primarily serves weapons industry demand cycles.

Regulatory skeptics counter that CO2 doesn't belong in "pollution" categories, that regulations just offshore production to China/India without solving global emissions, that booming industrial economies need cheap energy, and that regulations make downstream costs expensive for consumers. They note the 2024 standards had little teeth anyway (2039 deadline is far off).

A third camp simply expresses exasperation and shame. One notes the standards were only in place less than two years. Another suggests voting could overturn this "in a couple years," while a darker comment suggests geopolitical blowback (Iran war curtailing emissions more effectively than policy) or that the move accelerates American decline relative to China. The prevailing verdict among engaged commenters leans toward viewing this as both environmentally damaging and economically irrational given renewable cost trajectories.2e:T92e,Sherline Products, a legacy US manufacturer since at least the 1970s, announced it is winding down manufacturing operations, with final closure by end of 2026. The company cites COVID impacts, rising manufacturing and labor costs, and "significant changes in consumer purchasing habits." They will attempt to fulfill orders through October 2026 and maintain replacement parts and support as inventory allows.

The comments reveal a complex decline rather than simple nostalgia. Multiple observers note Sherline simply didn't adapt: their product line changed little in decades, their CNC offerings never became competitive with modern alternatives, and they lost search visibility to cheaper imports. One commenter working in CNC noted the broader pattern—companies serving hobbyists and makers are disappearing because the entire ecosystem has shifted. Cheap Asian imports, subsidized or exploiting labor differences, undercut everything. 3D printers and laser cutters now handle work that once required a lathe or mill.

Some commenters blame policy: tariffs, bureaucratic burden, and regulatory costs make US manufacturing increasingly uncompetitive. Others point to structural changes: young people aren't learning to make things (convinced it's cheaper to outsource or use AI), garages are disappearing as people live in apartments without space for machines, and education in manufacturing trades is weakening. One manufacturing insider cited bureaucracy, loss of local supply chains, failure to attract young workers, and regulatory insecurity as consistent headwinds across US and EU production.

A few defend the business reality: Sherline was always a compromise machine—neither cheap like Asian imports nor capable like professional equipment. Modern makers have better options: kits from companies like Langmuir, controllers like MASSO and Acorn, affordable closed-loop steppers, and used industrial machines (Bridgeports, precision Matthews) converted with modern electronics. For hobbyists, a 3D printer or benchtop CNC router offers far more value.

The prevailing consensus treats this as inevitable market evolution, not tragedy. Sherline filled a niche that no longer exists. The broader loss—of hobbyist manufacturing culture, of the assumption that individuals should learn to make things—registers as sad but unstoppable.2f:T906,Heretic is an automated pipeline designed to remove safety restrictions ("abliterate") from open-weight language models using prompt injection and weight manipulation techniques. The project frames this as reclaiming user control over technology, allowing models to follow any instruction without refusals.

The comments reveal significant tension between theoretical freedom and practical limitations. Several commenters describe legitimate use cases: reverse-engineering owned devices (IP cameras with CVEs, Xiaomi bootloaders), security testing on your own network, and repair work on purchased hardware. These users argue that policy layers optimized for the median user create barriers for security researchers and hardware owners doing work on their own property.

However, technical experts identify fundamental flaws with the approach. One commenter with apparent training knowledge explains that safety refusals are often baked into the training data itself—when models refuse a topic, the underlying knowledge may simply not be encoded in the weights. Removing the refusal mechanism doesn't add missing knowledge; it forces the model down paths where it lacks information, producing hallucinations instead of accurate answers. Another notes that while abliteration stops refusals, quality degrades significantly on topics the model would normally refuse, describing outputs as "amateur brain surgery"—technically non-refusing but functionally useless.

The project claims to measure success via KL divergence charts and refusal counts, but critics argue these metrics are misleading for evaluating actual usefulness on restricted topics. One commenter points out that dramatic-looking metrics may just reflect cherrypicked data.

Security and policy concerns surface in comments questioning whether unrestricted models will be "outlawed first" and whether this enables harmful actors. The naming itself ("Heretic") invokes defiance of authority rather than solving genuine technical problems.

The prevailing verdict from experienced commenters: the tool works at removing refusals, but this doesn't solve the underlying problem. For vague refusals blocking legitimate work, it may help. For topics where training data genuinely lacks knowledge, it just produces confident-sounding wrong answers.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-22 08:30 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-22 08:30 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":1}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/mimo-v2-6","id":49792730,"rank":1,"title":"MiMo v2.6","url":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/mimo-v2-6","domain":"mimo.xiaomi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792730","by":"volf_","score":865,"commentCount":388,"time":1790021532000,"short":"Xiaomi released MiMo v2.6, offering Flash (15B activated) and Pro (42B activated) variants with competitive pricing. Comments praise Xiaomi's training transparency and real-time dashboards, debate whether Chinese models will dominate due to energy advantages, and report mixed real-world performance—strong on some benchmarks but slower and more prone to overthinking than Grok or Astra on image-to-HTML tasks. Concerns raised about API reliability and data privacy when using their hosting.","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:06.196Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://alicegg.tech/2026/09/21/attention","id":49787726,"rank":2,"title":"Attention is all you have","url":"https://alicegg.tech/2026/09/21/attention","domain":"alicegg.tech","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49787726","by":"zer0tonin","score":774,"commentCount":227,"time":1790000816000,"short":"Alice GG argues that algorithmic feeds on YouTube, Spotify, LinkedIn, and Reddit have hijacked our attention, deliberately steering us toward engagement-maximizing content rather than what we intentionally want. The \"Tetris effect\" shows how sustained focus shapes thought; we've ceded control to algorithms. The intentional web of RSS feeds, blogs, and bookmarks still exists but requires deliberate effort to maintain. HN comments validate the core thesis while adding nuance: some note nostalgic…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:06.828Z","age":"18 hours ago"},{"key":"https://buchodi.com/chatgpt-now-knows-what-you-do-on-other-websites-via-ad-collector","id":49776729,"rank":3,"title":"ChatGPT now knows what you do on other websites via ad collector","url":"https://www.buchodi.com/chatgpt-now-knows-what-you-do-on-other-websites-via-ad-collector/","domain":"buchodi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776729","by":"lmbbuchodi","score":755,"commentCount":390,"time":1789917524000,"short":"OpenAI's ad collector tracks users across websites via a cookie (__obi) set on ChatGPT and sent back through advertiser pixels, linking browsing behavior to ChatGPT accounts. The mechanism mirrors Facebook's standard adtech but applied to an AI chat product where users share sensitive information, raising concerns about privacy and consent misclassification as \"analytics.\"","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:56.772Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen-image-2.1","id":49775499,"rank":4,"title":"Qwen Image 2.1","url":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen-image-2.1","domain":"qwen.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49775499","by":"jmillikin","score":726,"commentCount":195,"time":1789909765000,"short":"Alibaba's Qwen released Qwen-Image-2.1, a compact 7B-parameter open-weight image generation model with native transparency support and notably better text rendering than competitors. However, the restrictive commercial license (unlike their previous Apache-licensed model) and minor quality control issues limit adoption. HN consensus: impressive technical achievement, especially for local inference, though it doesn't match closed Qwen3 or top proprietary models like Ideogram4.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:01.517Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://libroot.org/posts/what-happened-to-the-snowden-archive","id":49780820,"rank":5,"title":"What happened to the Snowden archive","url":"https://libroot.org/posts/what-happened-to-the-snowden-archive","domain":"libroot.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780820","by":"EXHades","score":695,"commentCount":533,"time":1789943749000,"short":"Seven years after the last Snowden document published (May 2019), none of the major outlets holding copies—Guardian, Post, Times, ProPublica, Der Spiegel, Intercept—have released additional material despite holding hundreds of thousands of documents. The article traces how outlets gradually stopped publishing: Guardian destroyed its London copy under government pressure and curtailed publication to 0.05% of its archive; others stopped after substantial investigations. Multiple outlets cite…","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:29.792Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://agentexecutor.io","id":49780797,"rank":6,"title":"AX – Google’s Open Agentic Orchestrator","url":"https://agentexecutor.io","domain":"agentexecutor.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780797","by":"blazarquasar","score":641,"commentCount":293,"time":1789943563000,"short":"AX is Google's open-source orchestrator for running isolated agent workloads at scale. It provides declarative primitives (Tasks, Workspaces, Gateways, Models) to sandbox agents, manage their environments, control network access, and configure models. Built on Agent Substrate for sub-second resumption and billions of concurrent tasks. HN comments express skepticism: unclear actual use cases, misleading \"Google's\" branding (appears to be Googlers' side project), comparison to existing…","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:19.429Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.colinbreck.com/i-dont-want-to-read-what-you-didnt-write","id":49794330,"rank":7,"title":"I don't want to read what you didn't write","url":"https://blog.colinbreck.com/i-dont-want-to-read-what-you-didnt-write/","domain":"blog.colinbreck.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49794330","by":"mooreds","score":631,"commentCount":232,"time":1790029841000,"short":"Colin Breck argues AI-written text is unreadable and exhausting—summarizing design decisions without context, losing author voice and nuance. He used AI effectively for his academic paper only for editing, verification, and tedious tasks like citations, never for original prose. HN commenters largely agree but split on whether imperfect human writing beats generic AI output, with some defending AI as useful for non-writers and others finding the piece self-contradictory or ironically…","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:44.354Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://zuckoff.app","id":49785429,"rank":8,"title":"ZuckOff Know when a camera is in the room","url":"https://zuckoff.app/","domain":"zuckoff.app","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49785429","by":"Bluestein","score":598,"commentCount":3,"time":1789986794000,"short":"ZuckOff is an iOS/Android app that detects camera glasses (Ray-Ban Meta, Oakley Meta, Snap Spectacles) nearby by listening for their Bluetooth advertisements. It logs all Bluetooth devices, shows signal strength, and allows users to whitelist their own devices. No account required, data stays on-device. HN comments praised the concept but criticized poor UX (hard to find download link), questioned reliability vs older open-source alternatives, noted the \"buy merch\" popup feels opportunistic…","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:25.399Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bcantrill.dtrace.org/2026/09/20/what-sun-got-wrong","id":49787436,"rank":9,"title":"What Sun got wrong","url":"https://bcantrill.dtrace.org/2026/09/20/what-sun-got-wrong/","domain":"bcantrill.dtrace.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49787436","by":"chmaynard","score":579,"commentCount":329,"time":1789999398000,"short":"Bryan Cantrill reflects on Sun's downfall: despite brilliant technology and strategic wins (like open-sourcing Solaris), Sun became operationally incompetent at basic business execution—customer service, sales responsiveness, and order fulfillment. A 2005 startup chose Dell's attentive account executive over Sun's unreachable sales team, then Cantrill later joined that startup and co-founded Oxide with the Dell rep, Steve. Comments highlight Sun's structural failures: conflicting internal…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:09.310Z","age":"18 hours ago"},{"key":"https://x.ai/news/grok-4-7","id":49788838,"rank":10,"title":"Grok 4.7","url":"https://x.ai/news/grok-4-7","domain":"x.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49788838","by":"meetpateltech","score":559,"commentCount":480,"time":1790005815000,"short":"xAI released Grok 4.7, a larger model with 40% more weights than 4.6 but same pricing ($2/$6 per million tokens). Benchmarks show modest gains on coding tasks (CursorBench 46.3% vs 4.6's 40.4%), stronger safety refusals, and improved document work. HN users note significant token bloat (240M output tokens for barely 2% improvement), express skepticism about real-world utility versus marketing, and flag deceptive cache pricing hiding higher per-operation costs for agentic workflows.","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:08.762Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://pirateface.co","id":49776699,"rank":11,"title":"Pirate Face Rescues LLM Models from Deletion","url":"https://pirateface.co/","domain":"pirateface.co","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776699","by":"skepticalgenius","score":550,"commentCount":146,"time":1789917367000,"short":"Pirate Face mirrors open-source AI models from Hugging Face as checksum-verified torrents, making them permanently available via P2P even if HF removes them. Models stay on HF while possible (faster downloads) but survive via seeders if deleted. HN debate centered on whether the \"pirate\" branding hurts legitimacy, concerns about handling of abliterated/uncensored models, spam in claims, and questioning whether licenses conflict with claimed censorship-resistance.","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:59.801Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://en.sedaily.com/finance/2026/09/20/samsung-to-double-hbm4-output-next-year-sources-say","id":49778029,"rank":12,"title":"Samsung is expected to more than double output of its HBM4 and HBM4E DRAM","url":"https://en.sedaily.com/finance/2026/09/20/samsung-to-double-hbm4-output-next-year-sources-say","domain":"en.sedaily.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49778029","by":"giuliomagnifico","score":549,"commentCount":447,"time":1789925930000,"short":"Samsung plans to more than double HBM4/HBM4E output next year to 250k wafers monthly from ~180k currently, with HBM4 family rising from 40% to 80% of mix. Glass carrier outsourcing rises 2.5x. Comments worry this diverts DRAM from consumers, spiking prices, and note Chinese HBM yields lag due to sanctions while AI demand may prove temporary.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:56.221Z","age":"39 hours ago"},{"key":"https://truthout.org/articles/warren-introduces-bill-to-ban-private-equity-from-owning-medical-practices","id":49780630,"rank":13,"title":"Bill to Ban Private Equity from Owning Medical Practices","url":"https://truthout.org/articles/warren-introduces-bill-to-ban-private-equity-from-owning-medical-practices/","domain":"truthout.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780630","by":"paimapi","score":496,"commentCount":366,"time":1789942426000,"short":"Sen. Warren introduced bicameral legislation banning private equity and insurance companies from owning medical practices, modeled on Oregon's law. The bill targets management-services organizations and includes enforcement mechanisms (FTC, state AGs, private right of action). Physician employment by corporations rose from 62% in 2019 to 82% in 2026; PE healthcare investment jumped from $5B (2000) to $104B (2024). Comments debated whether PE truly improves capital access versus extractive…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:06.052Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://consumerrights.wiki/w/Disney%2B_ad_policy_change","id":49784336,"rank":14,"title":"Disney+: New user agreement allows ads before movies in all subscriptions","url":"https://consumerrights.wiki/w/Disney%2B_ad_policy_change","domain":"consumerrights.wiki","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49784336","by":"DeepLogin","score":495,"commentCount":353,"time":1789977328000,"short":"Disney+ updated its January 2025 subscriber agreement to allow ads on all tiers, including premium \"ad-free\" subscriptions, with exceptions for streaming rights limitations, live content, promotions, and branded integrations. HN commenters largely split between those noting the carve-outs are narrow (live sports ads, Disney self-promotion) versus those seeing this as yet another erosion of paid streaming value alongside price hikes, poor UX, and the broader collapse of streaming as a better…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:26.948Z","age":"25 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/jaredpalmer/kev/tree/main","id":49783999,"rank":15,"title":"Kev: Tiny Jev-like family of decision models built on top of Qwen3.5","url":"https://github.com/jaredpalmer/kev/tree/main","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783999","by":"tosh","score":432,"commentCount":194,"time":1789974715000,"short":"Kev is an open-source family of small decision models (0.8B, 4B, 9B) built on Qwen3.5 that answer yes/no, multiple-choice, and rating questions. It matches TypeSafe's System One API, runs locally on CUDA or Apple Silicon, and offers fine-tuning support. HN commenters praise the engineering and open availability but debate whether Jev-like models are genuinely useful versus hype, note data privacy concerns with commercial Jev, and question whether architecture or training data is the real…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:37.020Z","age":"25 hours ago"},{"key":"https://brand.io/article/spymarks","id":49794615,"rank":16,"title":"Spymarks, Not Watermarks","url":"https://brand.io/article/spymarks/","domain":"brand.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49794615","by":"possibilistic","score":391,"commentCount":97,"time":1790031829000,"short":"Article argues invisible tracking signals embedded in media (Google SynthID, audio watermarks, text steering) should be called \"spymarks\" not \"watermarks\" to clarify privacy risks. Comments note this is steganography with tracking; debate whether the term is necessary since watermarking already covered this; discuss practical defenses (re-compression, re-encoding, text copying) and risks to whistleblowers; some argue the technology can be net-positive for detecting AI-generated content.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:41.179Z","age":"9 hours ago"},{"key":"https://wired.me/story/meta-smart-glasses-detector-app-zuckoff","id":49785397,"rank":17,"title":"ZuckOff is a free app that sees Meta glasses before they see you","url":"https://www.wired.me/story/meta-smart-glasses-detector-app-zuckoff","domain":"wired.me","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49785397","by":"choult","score":388,"commentCount":341,"time":1789986470000,"short":"ZuckOff is a free Bluetooth detection app that identifies Meta smart glasses nearby by reading their unique identifier signals, addressing privacy concerns as 7 million Ray-Ban Meta glasses sold in 2025 can record with disabled LED indicators. The app can't determine if glasses are actively recording or who wears them, only rough proximity, but commenters note it only works when glasses are in pairing mode, making it largely useless for practical detection.","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:23.329Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://twitter.com/Lon/status/2101793422487204027","id":49789224,"rank":18,"title":"Fable 5 – Median thinking declined in August","url":"https://twitter.com/Lon/status/2101793422487204027","domain":"twitter.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49789224","by":"espeed","score":387,"commentCount":272,"time":1790007237000,"short":"A user reported that Claude Fable 5's performance degraded significantly in August after Anthropic made it permanently available on subscriptions, measured via five different methods showing fewer thinking tokens. The core finding: not a model \"nerf\" but changes to inference regimes served to users. HN comments split between users confirming anecdotal quality drops over weeks, skeptics questioning methodology (workload vs. model changes), and deeper concerns about deliberately degrading…","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:17.634Z","age":"16 hours ago"},{"key":"https://science.org/content/article/nasa-s-mars-sample-return-mission-dead","id":49791939,"rank":19,"title":"NASA’s Mars Sample Return mission is dead","url":"https://www.science.org/content/article/nasa-s-mars-sample-return-mission-dead","domain":"science.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49791939","by":"Muhammad523","score":380,"commentCount":316,"time":1790018052000,"short":"NASA cancelled its Mars Sample Return mission after costs ballooned to $11B with samples not returning until 2040. Comments split: critics say JPL designed an inefficient, bloated program maximizing complexity and jobs rather than science; defenders argue cancelling this specific architecture allows pivoting toward cheaper, modular missions using commercial providers and Starship. China's competing 2028 sample return and cheaper launch alternatives make the old plan obsolete.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:16.006Z","age":"13 hours ago"},{"key":"https://poloclub.github.io/transformer-explainer","id":49792342,"rank":20,"title":"Transformers Explained Visually","url":"https://poloclub.github.io/transformer-explainer/","domain":"poloclub.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792342","by":"aray07","score":379,"commentCount":61,"time":1790019829000,"short":"Interactive browser-based visualization of GPT-2 transformer architecture running live ONNX model in JavaScript. Covers tokenization, embeddings, multi-head attention, MLPs, and token sampling with adjustable temperature/top-k/top-p parameters. Comments praise the intuitive design but note it uses dated GPT-2 absolute positional encoding, the QKV mechanisms deserve more upfront explanation, and the page is RAM-intensive.","long":"$25","gem":true,"gemReason":"Live interactive visualization of transformer internals with real GPT-2 inference…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:37.522Z","age":"13 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gameshelf.jmac.org/2008/11/13/GrimPuzzleDoc_small.pdf","id":49783495,"rank":21,"title":"Grim Fandango Puzzle Document (1996) [pdf]","url":"http://gameshelf.jmac.org/2008/11/13/GrimPuzzleDoc_small.pdf","domain":"gameshelf.jmac.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783495","by":"kelseyfrog","score":366,"commentCount":94,"time":1789970122000,"short":"Tim Schafer's 1996 Grim Fandango puzzle design document is a PDF blend of practical game design and playful personality, featuring jokes, graphics, and personality-laden asides. Schafer even overlapped paragraphs to hide an unfinished final puzzle from deadline reviewers. Comments celebrate the game's enduring artistry: stunning animation, writing, jazz soundtrack, and atmosphere that defined LucasArts adventure gaming. Some note obscure puzzles and dated visuals; most agree it's a masterpiece…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:23.810Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://borischerny.com/management,/product/2026/09/19/I-am-often-wrong.html","id":49777467,"rank":22,"title":"I am often wrong","url":"https://borischerny.com/management,/product/2026/09/19/I-am-often-wrong.html","domain":"borischerny.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49777467","by":"bcherny","score":329,"commentCount":223,"time":1789922506000,"short":"Boris Cherny describes a six-step problem-solving framework: gather information, define the problem, devise a clear approach, set a goal, act with urgency, and iterate when new data arrives. Comments overwhelmingly dismiss it as repackaged common sense, criticize the forced \"urgency\" on all problems, note the lack of concrete examples, and express frustration that Cherny demands his framework while Anthropic's Claude Code has well-known unsolved bugs. Some defend it as aligned with Amazon's…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:19.040Z","age":"40 hours ago"},{"key":"https://maharship.com/blog/why-mcp-was-always-a-bad-idea","id":49779329,"rank":23,"title":"MCP was always a bad idea?","url":"https://maharship.com/blog/why-mcp-was-always-a-bad-idea/","domain":"maharship.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49779329","by":"maharshi365","score":321,"commentCount":317,"time":1789933480000,"short":"Author argues MCP (Model Context Protocol) is obsolete now that LLMs can write code, call APIs directly, and discover CLIs via --help. MCP solved problems from 2024 when models were weaker; better alternatives exist (HTTP APIs, CLIs). Comments push back hard: MCP provides permission boundaries, audit trails, UI for non-technical users, and one-click installation in ChatGPT/Claude marketplaces—none of which direct API access offers. Enterprise security and governance favor MCP despite technical…","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:35.392Z","age":"37 hours ago"},{"key":"https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/turn-restrict-access-apple-intelligence-mchlb2e44f94/mac","id":49790409,"rank":24,"title":"Turn off and restrict access to Apple Intelligence features on Mac","url":"https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/turn-restrict-access-apple-intelligence-mchlb2e44f94/mac","domain":"support.apple.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49790409","by":"alwillis","score":299,"commentCount":195,"time":1790011821000,"short":"Apple's support page explains how to disable individual Apple Intelligence features scattered across Settings, Messages, Mail, Notifications, Phone, and Journal apps, plus a Screen Time killswitch. HN commenters universally frustrated: no global toggle, no way to reclaim disk space for unwanted models, features hidden in unintuitive locations, and user agency heavily eroded by default-enabled AI features.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:18.131Z","age":"15 hours ago"},{"key":"https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2026/09/19/why-do-we-need-human-mathematicians-anymore","id":49774521,"rank":25,"title":"Why do we need human mathematicians anymore?","url":"https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2026/09/19/why-do-we-need-human-mathematicians-anymore/","domain":"terrytao.wordpress.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49774521","by":"auggierose","score":286,"commentCount":361,"time":1789901398000,"short":"Po-Shen Loh argues mathematicians (and all knowledge workers) remain essential because AI decision-making is uncontrollable and opaque, creating proliferating \"control points\" requiring human oversight. Humans must steer AI toward human flourishing. Comments split: some praise the alignment perspective while others call the reasoning circular, argue AI will eventually replace all oversight, or claim pure math doesn't need external justification.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:34.451Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gadgetreview.com/singapore-is-paying-people-to-put-down-their-phones-and-read-books","id":49776717,"rank":26,"title":"Singapore’s National Library Board offers micropayments to build reading habits","url":"https://www.gadgetreview.com/singapore-is-paying-people-to-put-down-their-phones-and-read-books","domain":"gadgetreview.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776717","by":"geox","score":284,"commentCount":146,"time":1789917485000,"short":"Singapore's National Library Board launched ReadSG, a five-year micropayment pilot paying users 20 virtual coins (≈S$0.02) for 15 minutes of daily reading, redeemable for cash. Critics note the payout is too modest to motivate non-readers, and HN commenters highlight skepticism about the mechanics: how reading is actually verified, whether this incentivizes screens over paper, and whether trivial rewards genuinely reshape habits versus simply gamifying existing behavior.","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:07.827Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/volotat/mini-AGI","id":49783133,"rank":27,"title":"Show HN: Mini-AGI – Dynamic continual learning model trained on 8GB VRAM","url":"https://github.com/volotat/mini-AGI/","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783133","by":"volotat","score":263,"commentCount":60,"time":1789965757000,"short":"Mini-AGI is a byte-level language model trainable from scratch on 8GB consumer GPUs using mixture-of-experts with disk paging for weights, designed for continual learning without catastrophic forgetting. The key innovation is using a trunk learning rate at 0.1x expert rate, which reduces forgetting to 0.0067 nats when learning chess while maintaining other subjects. HN discussion questions whether this truly avoids forgetting or merely delays it, notes the model achieves 1.20 bits/byte (worse…","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T16:25:40.376Z","age":"28 hours ago"},{"key":"https://text.hrw.org/news/2026/09/17/us-revokes-limits-on-power-plants-climate-pollution","id":49777841,"rank":28,"title":"US Revokes Limits on Power Plants' Climate Pollution","url":"https://text.hrw.org/news/2026/09/17/us-revokes-limits-on-power-plants-climate-pollution","domain":"text.hrw.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49777841","by":"DeepLogin","score":257,"commentCount":263,"time":1789924792000,"short":"EPA revoked 2024 carbon pollution limits on coal and gas power plants (second-largest US emissions source), repealing requirements for 90% carbon capture by 2039. The rule would have prevented 1.38B metric tons of CO2 and 1,200 deaths annually. Commenters split: some call it economically suicidal given solar/wind cost curves and energy security risks; others argue climate regulations damage the economy and just offshore pollution, while a few express outrage at the reversal.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:57.419Z","age":"39 hours ago"},{"key":"https://toolguyd.com/sherline-tools-shutting-down-usa-production","id":49776627,"rank":29,"title":"Sherline Tools Is Going Out of Business","url":"https://toolguyd.com/sherline-tools-shutting-down-usa-production/","domain":"toolguyd.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776627","by":"tliltocatl","score":252,"commentCount":179,"time":1789916981000,"short":"Sherline Tools, a venerable US maker of precision lathes and mills, is ceasing operations by end of 2026 due to cost pressures, competition from cheap Asian imports, and declining hobbyist interest. Comments reveal market shifts: cheap CNC alternatives, 3D printers, and lasercutters have displaced traditional small machines. Some fault management's failure to innovate or modernize CNC offerings; others note structural issues like lost garage culture, education gaps, and regulatory costs making…","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:07.906Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://heretic-project.org","id":49783101,"rank":30,"title":"Heretic removes restrictions from language models","url":"https://heretic-project.org/","domain":"heretic-project.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49783101","by":"Bluestein","score":251,"commentCount":103,"time":1789965322000,"short":"Heretic is a tool that removes safety restrictions from open-weight language models to make them follow any instruction. Users cite legitimate needs like reverse-engineering owned hardware, but comments highlight two major problems: models may lack actual knowledge on restricted topics (since refusals were baked into training), and abliteration often produces hallucinations or degraded reasoning rather than genuinely helpful answers.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:16.594Z","age":"28 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-22T00-56Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-22 00:56 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-22T16-25Z/","children":["2026-09-22 16:25 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-22 08:30 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
