1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
4:I[7958,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","974","static/chunks/app/page-ad8e6a2c5b444418.js"],"default"]
26:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
5:T7ec,The original GrapheneOS post was unavailable, but the HN thread centers on Google releasing Android 17 APIs first through Pixel-exclusive quarterly updates rather than to the open-source Android Open Source Project (AOSP). This is reportedly the first such instance since Android 3.x, breaking historical practice.

Key observations from comments: Google does quarterly Pixel-specific releases with new APIs and SDKs, separate from twice-yearly AOSP releases to OEMs and the public. While the API-first-on-Pixel pattern is unusual, commenters identify a more serious underlying issue: these quarterly Pixel releases allegedly contain security patches that don't appear in the monthly backports distributed to "trusted" OEMs like GrapheneOS. This is problematic because Pixel releases can be reverse-engineered to extract exploits.

The pattern extends broader frustrations about Google systematically blocking GrapheneOS and independent OEMs: delayed upstream patches, attestation issues, and now feature gating. Some interpret this as Google regretting making Android open source and using proprietary advantages (GMS licensing, Play Services integration) to make AOSP increasingly irrelevant. Comments note Google formerly delayed security backports to non-GMS OEMs entirely.

However, one pragmatic commenter notes that app developers unlikely to depend on these Pixel-exclusive APIs anyway given tiny Pixel marketshare, making this odd but perhaps not urgent. Others frame this as Pixels acting as beta devices for features arriving to standard devices quarterly later—unusual but not catastrophic for end users.

The deeper sentiment across comments: Android has devolved from open alternative to iOS into a Google-controlled ecosystem where AOSP decays into uselessness. GrapheneOS advocates call for alternatives (Steam Phone, Plasma Mobile) or GPL-licensed mobile OS to prevent corporate abuse. EU Digital Markets Act is forcing some API openness by 2027-2028, but comments express pessimism about Google's trajectory.6:Ta1f,Unredacted filings from The New York Times' three-year-old copyright lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft reveal internal admissions that directly contradict the companies' public fair-use defense. A Microsoft director called the scraping practices "the largest theft of labor in human history" and "astonishing theft of unprecedented proportions." The documents detail systematic copyright circumvention: employees allegedly built hacks to bypass NYT paywalls undetected, created datasets with 91,692+ NYT article copies and 2+ million nytimes.com documents, deliberately stripped copyright notices from training data, and shared scraped content between companies via "Project Taxi" and "Project Mango" initiatives.

Microsoft's own metrics undermine fair-use arguments that training doesn't harm the original work. Internal presentations showed Copilot caused up to 93% drop in click-through rates to NYT's domain, described as a "doom loop" that threatens the "economic foundations" of content suppliers. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella testified that paywalled content should require licensing and that he would have required OpenAI to retrain models if aware of paywall scraping. OpenAI's head of ChatGPT admitted publishers face "existential threat" from models that are "largely substitutive" and will become more so.

The scale is unprecedented: datasets combined contain hundreds of thousands of unique works from major publishers, pulled from Bing Index, Common Crawl, and custom scraping. Microsoft documents explicitly acknowledge "real risk" of "significantly disrupting employment of people who generated the data."

HN comments largely cluster into two camps. Critics emphasize this proves willful infringement at scale: scale matters legally (one human learning differs fundamentally from infinitely replicable models), and licensing frameworks already exist—the companies just found it economically convenient to ignore them. Others argue the "theft" framing misses that all knowledge builds on prior work, that information naturally wants to flow freely, and that restricting training data would unfairly protect incumbent publishers while blocking beneficial innovation. Several commenters note the hypocrisy: individuals face jail for modest scraping while corporations do it planetwide; governments aren't building these models as public infrastructure; and workers in content generation lose jobs without compensation or consent. Some defend knowledge-sharing as fundamentally human while attacking corporate privatization of both the commons and the tools built from it.7:Tce5,Hawksley's core thesis: passkeys are genuinely superior technology against man-in-the-middle and phishing attacks (asymmetric crypto, site-bound), making them ideal for enterprise. But for individuals, the threat model is inverted. Everyday risks—permanent account lockout, automated bans from cloud providers, device loss—pose higher probability harm than sophisticated phishing attacks. The recovery methods (SMS, email links, security questions) remain weak links regardless.

He identifies three implementation problems. Hardware keys can't be backed up, require buying 2-3 keys per site (25-100 account limit per key), don't scale. Synced passkeys lock users into Apple/Google ecosystems; a single account ban means irreversible loss of all third-party passkeys everywhere. Third-party password managers lack OS-level UX polish—autofill remains fragmented and inconsistent, especially outside browsers and in native apps. Hybrid transport (QR+Bluetooth) theoretically solves cross-device login but fails in practice with connection drops and Bluetooth incompatibility.

Comment consensus validates his concerns. Multiple users report accidentally creating passkeys through unclear UI flows and getting locked out on other devices. The O(m*n) complexity of registering passkeys across multiple personal devices is real. A critical complaint: sites like Amazon keep nagging about passkey setup despite already having one stored in Bitwarden, suggesting poor integrations with third-party managers. Users report dealing with three simultaneous prompts (browser, OS, password manager) trying to intercept passkey flows—described as "user-hostile."

Some counterarguments emerged. Users storing passkeys in 1Password or Bitwarden argue this solves the multi-device problem and they've had few lockout issues because sites maintain fallback auth. One commenter reports passkeys as a "massive quality-of-life improvement" eliminating flakey autofill. Others note most passkey-enabled sites keep password option available (not fully passwordless), reducing lockout risk.

Strong consensus around marketing-driven adoption: tech companies are aggressively pushing passkeys through repeated nags and dark patterns without user consent or understanding. Commenters compare this to IPv6—a technically sound supply-side solution nobody actually asked for. Ecosystem lock-in concerns are serious: multiple users worry about Apple/Google attestation features eventually requiring certified (non-rooted) devices, turning this into another walling mechanism.

Practical frustrations dominate: Linux users and those on non-standard ROMs report passkeys never working properly. Holiday scenario (phone lost/water-damaged, need account recovery on borrowed device) highlights the brittleness. Hybrid transport is too unreliable. Third-party password manager support remains inconsistent years into passkey rollout, with sites either not recognizing them or repeatedly prompting to create new ones.

One sophisticated concern: attestation in the FIDO standard could enable ecosystem lock-in once passkeys are ubiquitous—Google and Apple just need to flip a switch to require certified devices. The "if Big Tech is pushing hard for it, run the opposite direction" skepticism reflects broader trust deficit.8:Tb0d,Cloudflare Quick Tunnels is a free, account-less service that exposes a local development server to the internet via an ephemeral, encrypted tunnel. One command starts it, prints a random hostname (e.g., quiet-marble-otter-canyon.trycloudflare.com), and routes all traffic back through Cloudflare's edge network with automatic TLS, DDoS filtering, and no inbound ports on the user's machine. The service is positioned as ideal for the "agent era"—giving AI agents and tools stable URLs for testing, webhooks, and evaluations. Installation is minimal (brew install cloudflared, run the command) and the tunnel dies when the process exits.

The comment section reveals several important caveats. First, this product is not new: it has existed for over 5 years, and archive.org confirms the same service was live in December 2021. The HN thread treats the new landing page as a relaunch, but multiple commenters (noname120, mgw) question whether a new "vibe-coded" marketing site warrants front-page coverage for an old product. The term "vibe-coded" appears repeatedly—skhameneh notes the page looks like a single LLM prompt with minimal iteration; rplnt points out accessibility issues like low-contrast text. One commenter (rock_artist) notes that AI code generation now recommends and uses Quick Tunnels, which is fresh enough to have found its way into recent LLM training data.

Practical concerns emerge about the core offering. dangoodmanUT reports historically high latency variance with Cloudflare Tunnels (115-750ms vs. expected 30-50ms). adamfeldman links a 2021 GitHub issue about broken macOS service installation that apparently remains unfixed, suggesting Cloudflare may deprioritize the tunnel product. The first commenter (TIPSIO) had technical difficulties with the broader Cloudflare Zero Trust ecosystem and prefers Tailscale for team collaboration.

The anonymous, account-less nature draws scrutiny. inconshreveable, the ngrok founder, posted directly to explain why ngrok removed anonymous usage years ago due to abuse being their "largest source of abuse on our entire platform." pocksuppet expresses concern about potential misuse (hosting illegal content via Mullvad + Quick Tunnels), and whizzter asks whether free proxy services inevitably get blacklisted due to scammer abuse.

Alternatives are mentioned: Tailscale (praised for simplicity and broader integrations), Pinggy (SSH-based, 1-hour free sessions), ngrok (now requires an account), frp, and bore. One commenter built a custom $5/mo solution with WireGuard and a tiny kernel image. The verdict seems to be: Quick Tunnels works well for quick sharing, but the service is not new, has known latency issues, may lack long-term investment from Cloudflare, and the marketing page itself drew criticism for generic, possibly AI-generated design.9:T957,Hister is a personal search engine that indexes full-text content from pages you visit, browser history, local files, and crawled websites. It runs locally or on infrastructure you control, storing extracted content with offline previews so pages remain searchable even after deletion. The tool supports full-text and optional semantic search, offers a web interface, command-line access, and MCP (Model Context Protocol) integration for AI assistants. A browser extension for Firefox and Chrome automatically indexes visited pages. Installation is straightforward via binary download, Homebrew, Docker, or Nix.

The project emerged from the author (asciimoo, who created Searx) pivoting away from metasearch limitations. Key features include field filters, phrase queries, wildcards, negation, result priorities, multi-user support, and no mandatory cloud sync or telemetry.

HN comments revealed substantial enthusiasm and independent reinvention: multiple commenters described building nearly identical tools themselves without knowing Hister existed. Chrome offered this exact feature in 2008 called "Offline Browsing" with full-text indexing, removed in 2013 reportedly due to technical constraints—Hister resurrects that lost functionality. One user mentioned ChatGPT largely solved this problem for him by recalling articles from months past, though Hister provides a structured, permanent local alternative.

Early users report genuine utility. One deployed it for a month and uses it specifically when hunting through months of browser history; another indexed Obsidian notes for global search and built exclusion rules early on. A third has used it for two weeks with positive results. Requests in comments include: indexing visibility duration (ignore pages viewed <4 seconds), Android phone support, per-page note-taking, and integration with offline Wikipedia caches.

The project faces a legal issue: a registered US trademark holder has requested the name change. The author welcomes suggestions for short, pronounceable alternatives with available .org domains.

Concerns raised were minimal. One commenter worried about downloading unsigned binaries lacking Linux distribution review, a valid software supply chain concern. Another noted Zotero as related but distinct (research organization vs. search index). Design and implementation quality drew praise for the web UI.a:Tae1,The article demonstrates that AI poster generation needn't default to the identical saccharine "village fayre" template plaguing social media. Author John Hartnup uses ChatGPT to generate the same spring fayre event (tombola, bands, circus skills) across 15+ design styles—Bauhaus minimalism, risograph print, Memphis postmodern, 90s drum-and-bass flyers, mock punk zines, even simulated child artwork plus professional typography. By naming specific movements and pushing the model away from defaults, outputs become visually distinct and interesting.

The comment section reveals substantial disagreement. Several threads critique the "solution" itself: the designs, though stylistically varied, remain recognizably and uniformly AI in a way that seasoned observers immediately catch. Critics note persistent tells—weird unicode characters, banal cultural associations (sakura + flag for "Japanese minimal"), incorrect rendering of 90s fractal CGI, and a sterile "Microsoft Word template" quality underneath. One commenter with experience in a print shop identifies a practical problem: AI never sizes artwork correctly for physical printing.

More fundamental critiques question purpose. One poster points out all 12 variants still communicate poorly compared to originals—they don't show *what the event looks like* (real people fixing real things, actual performers, etc.). Another argues the designs feel misaligned with their referents, lacking subcultural knowledge (the DnB poster uses uplifting messaging and smiley faces, tone-deaf for a scene priding itself on edginess). A print-shop worker notes most people requesting AI posters won't bother with detailed style prompts; they'll accept defaults and feel satisfied they saved money on design.

Defenders counter that average freelance designers on Fiverr produce inferior results, and for small events without budget, AI "good enough" beats hiring real talent. Others note distinguishing quality AI work from human work gets harder when styles are constrained and claim the article's criticism of default styles applies equally to how people *use* the tool poorly, not the tool itself. One designer argues the real skill is recognizing that this requires craft—just in prompting rather than traditional design.

A critical observation from multiple comments: the core repetition problem persists even when styles vary, because LLMs can't escape surface-level association and genuinely novel ideation remains beyond them. The verdict leans toward "technically interesting but practically underwhelming"—these posters work as a proof-of-concept that AI can do more than defaults, but they don't solve why communities should care, and experienced designers or print professionals still see fundamental limitations.b:T97a,Claude Code 2.1.277 now checks for AGENTS.md when no CLAUDE.md file exists in a project, aligning with Codex/interoperable agent standards instead of forcing proprietary configuration. Additional fixes span 150+ bullet points: restored memory file age notes no longer break prompt caching mid-request, sandboxed Bash on Linux now correctly reports failed exit codes, fullscreen mode no longer freezes when scrolling past large diffs, and sessions no longer drop messages from forked skills. Gateway improvements include signed-in account confirmation and new proxy header/egress boundary support. VSCode extension gains background shell management, copy buttons, and session cost tracking. Cloud environments got visibility improvements and Claude Tag received credential form fixes.

Comments frame this as overdue table-stakes interoperability. Shopify's CEO Tobi Lütke publicly called for AGENTS.md support before other tools (Codex, Cursor) made it the de facto standard. Users praised it as obvious and non-stupid, comparing it to Apple's USB-C switch. Several noted they'd already created symlinks or wrapper scripts to sync AGENTS.md → CLAUDE.md, and multiple mention they can now delete those workarounds. One early adopter reported Claude Fable itself had unprompted created an AGENTS.md symlink when inferring multi-tool usage from example projects.

However, criticism centers on it being minimum viable and late. Some point out Claude Code still ignores .agents/skills directories and doesn't load skills from alternate paths. One developer highlighted a worse problem: Claude Code's settings.json takes precedence over CLAUDE.md instructions, and it applies "sensible defaults" even when user instructions explicitly forbid a behavior—e.g., CLAUDE.md says "don't add Made with Claude Code branding" but settings.json isn't aware of that, so Claude applies a default of true. Another complained settings.json doesn't support this override mechanism properly. One commenter noted the larger tension: many switched to Cursor or Codex partly because Claude Code enforced proprietary workflows, and even though interop improved, the subscription model (200 dollar plan at 20x usage cap) still drives people elsewhere. Others joked this is a "recession indicator" for AI tooling fragmentation, or noted the humorous parallel to programmers defending a standard about as trivial as USB-C, yet sticking to principle.c:T904,OpenJev is a browser-only interactive tool implementing the Jev "semantic if" interface pattern using open-source LLMs (Qwen 0.6B/3.5B, MiniCPM5 2B). Users supply a scenario, pose a question with 2-20 allowed answers, then the tool measures how long two decision methods take on the same local model: direct logit reading (extracting probability scores without token generation) versus token-by-token JSON generation. Models are loaded via Hugging Face into browser cache; no data leaves the page.

The HN comment thread reveals significant disagreement about what this actually accomplishes. Multiple users note this is not truly Jev—the closed service by TypeSafe with proprietary training and undisclosed speed guarantees. Real Jev's main innovation appears to be: (1) speed at inference time, and (2) guaranteed token constraint (preventing generation outside a specified set), making it useful for state machine drivers. OpenJev merely reproduces the API surface with off-the-shelf models.

One commenter with eval experience (mmastrac) provided a vLLM patch offering similar latency and accuracy comparisons. Another pointed to DiffusionGemma via vLLM as a more legitimate implementation. A third noted TypeSafe itself offers an adapter to use standard LLMs with the Jev interface.

Users also questioned the core value: is this different from Claude's structured outputs or older patterns? One tester found the generation method returned coin-flip probabilities (50/50) while direct logit reading gave vastly different numbers, suggesting inconsistency. Multiple comments criticized the visual design ("endless clutter") and noted the implementation is hacky—relying on SGLang's prefix caching and full vocabulary scoring just to extract a few answer-token scores, whereas a proper solution would fork model state once and compute only relevant scores.

A few practical issues emerged: HuggingFace blocks (firewall), slow loading on iPad, broken implementation notes link, and requests for resume-able downloads. One user raised the interesting point that Jev founder recently called themselves a data company, implying the real differentiator is training data, not architecture. Another noted real Jev's ToS prohibits publishing benchmarks—a major red flag compared to open-weight alternatives.d:Td9a,Bend is Victor Taelin's work on a parallelizable functional language with integrated formal verification. It compiles to native code (near-C speed on single core, up to 100x speedup on GPU via automatic parallelism) and includes a fast proof checker based on affine dependent types. The novel angle: declare invariants in LAWS.bend (e.g., "winning is impossible in this game"), and no code can be committed unless the compiler proves those laws are preserved. Taelin demoed blocking an AI's attempt to add wrapping world geometry that would break the no-win invariant.

The language targets AI-as-code-author workflows: specify formal laws once, then instruct Claude or other agents to "use Bend" and parallelize code. The pitch assumes AGI will exist but be untrustworthy without guardrails, so human-curated laws provide those guardrails.

Strong reactions in comments:

Skepticism about the setup itself: one user (garrisonj) noted you'd have to "vibecode all the laws and the laws could be wrong." Another (RomanKornev) observed that in practice, humans just modify the law to fit new features, defeating the point—and that freezing some laws while allowing others requires human judgment anyway. A third (amluto) questioned the language design itself: recursion is softly bounded to 2^48-1 (problematic for games), the type notation is confusing, and the guide is incomplete.

Practical feedback: svachalek tried porting a calendar-fixing tool and found the stdlib severely lacking: no order theory, Nat.max is unprovable because it's defined as a computed Bool, List.sort ships no sortedness theorem, so expressing "no two output plans overlap" requires proving merge sort first. That's a huge gap between "provable in principle" and "provable this afternoon."

Research credibility concerns: stschaef pointed out the single-commit history is suspicious, questioned whether affine dependent types (an active research area) have been vetted at a top PL conference, and noted absence of citations to related work (e.g., arXiv:2401.15258). The BendTT paper is "Fable-written" (vague peer review status) and lacks rigor for a claim that fundamental innovations happened.

Philosophical pushback: pron and whoamii questioned the entire premise. If AGI can correctly write any program and prove any property, why would it need human-written laws or a compiler at all? Wouldn't it just verify code directly and know what we want better than we can specify? The post-AGI framing feels circular.

Technical notes: fudged71 asked if GPU parallelism works on M-series (the page shows Metal performance but says "CUDA"). Dwedit and notnmeyer played the game and found creative exploits (walls on different planes, phase-locked flags), suggesting proofs can fail if they're under-specified. One user (tintor) joked the real business model is a paid agent to update proofs faster.

The author (LightMachine) posted an emotionally drained plea for civility after 1 year of 16h/day solo work and a single-commit launch, which itself became a meta-discussion point: hmokiguess defended the author against judgment about commit history.

Bottom line: Bend is a real engineering effort with genuine parallelism and proof integration, but the stdlib is skeletal, the language design has unresolved questions, the research novelty is overstated, and the core thesis (formal laws will guard AI code) presumes laws are themselves correct and well-specified—a human bottleneck Bend doesn't solve.e:T11f9,OpenAI launched Astra for Law, its frontier model configured for legal work. The system bundles GPT-6 Astra with a new legal search index spanning 230+ million URLs of U.S. case law, statutes, regulations, and administrative decisions (including data from Free Law Project's CourtListener covering 99.9% of published U.S. precedent). On the Vals AI Legal Research Bench, Astra for Law reached 54% strict accuracy versus 38.7% for GPT-6 with web search alone—a 40% relative gain. It found 24% more reference cases and retrieved up to 54% more relevant passages from target opinions. Custom instructions guide legal analysis and argument development. The offering includes Zero Data Retention API access, governance collaboration with Latham & Watkins, and 26 partner-built plugins (iManage, Intapp, DeepJudge, Thomson Reuters, etc.). Three major law firms—Sullivan & Cromwell, Ropes & Gray, and Cooley—previewed custom tools (deal analysis, due diligence, IPO prep). A fourth, Wachtell, is exploring ongoing collaboration. Harvey and Legora will access via API.

Comments reveal significant skepticism about the hype. A lawyer shared concrete validation: at their firm, LLMs like Claude now process documents at 8–10 per hour (vs. 2–3 before), but only for parsing and JSON output; a licensed attorney still reviews, and the LLM makes zero case-judgment decisions. Another lawyer noted the legal profession is economically fragmented—high-value personal injury cases involve minimal legal cost (mostly trial aids and preparation), so AI won't disrupt them; effects will vary sharply by practice area. A third shared experience: AI drafts contracts but introduces conflicting protective clauses and incorrect logic; lawyers caught multiple errors after AI's initial attempt, making reliance dangerous without expert review.

Technical pushback was sharp. One commenter noted that OpenAI's benchmark results (54% strict, 90% weighted) are marginally lower than Claude Opus 5 and Claude Fable 5.1 (both 55.29% strict), raising questions about whether the legal specialization actually outperforms general frontiers. Another flagged the blog's comparison example: while Astra for Law cited two close precedents, Claude Fable returned a reversed holding and claimed no matching case—but OpenAI provided no analysis of hallucination rates or failure modes. No mention of which jurisdictions are covered (the product focuses only on U.S. law). One commenter observed that the example transactional memo shows both systems doing multi-cited analysis competently but warns the value resides in judgment, not research retrieval.

Business model concerns dominated. Several lawyers worry that law firms partnering with OpenAI (Latham, S&C, Ropes & Gray, Cooley, Wachtell) are cannibalizing their own differentiation; once OpenAI commoditizes firm expertise via plugins and training data, why pay a premium for the original firm when competitors get the same model? One noted the landscape: Latham & Watkins partnering with OpenAI, Freshfields with Anthropic, Kleiner Perkins building in-house—but no clear winner emerges if the AI labs drain firm USP faster than revenue-sharing compensates. A developer skeptic argued OpenAI's "spray and pray" strategy (attempting to dominate consumer, API, vertical/domain products simultaneously) will fail; application-layer startups with fine-tuned models will outcompete the core vendor in specialized verticals.

Other concerns: courts are already overrun with AI-generated litigation; law is jurisdiction-specific and OpenAI's US-only focus may limit adoption abroad. One lawyer worried about LLM bias in drafting (models forget whose interests they're protecting and slip pro-customer clauses even when hired by vendors). A sharper concern: as the legal landscape becomes AI-augmented, the highest-stakes work shifts toward precedent arbitrage—finding buried authorities the opponent missed—making legal judgment progressively a hunt for "gotchas" rather than interpretation. Another floated that judge models trained on judicial output could enable virtual moot court tailored to each judge's idiosyncrasies, which sophisticated lawyers already do manually.

The consensus: AI is useful for document logistics and initial research but does not make judgment calls; lawyers will remain gatekeepers. Whether law firms surrendering expertise to OpenAI in pursuit of efficiency will profit or lose competitive ground remains open. Concerns about "lawslop," watermarking / removal, and the risk that AI enables cheaper frivolous litigation also surfaced.f:T8be,PrismML introduced Ternary Bonsai 2 27B, a heavily quantized 27B model based on Qwen3.8. It uses ternary weights (−1, 0, +1) with FP16 group-wise scaling to achieve 1.76 effective bits-per-weight, compressing the model to 5.9GB—roughly 1/9th the original size. Benchmarks show 98.2% aggregate performance retention across reasoning, coding, vision, math, and agentic tasks, scoring 83.9 vs. the full-precision model's 85.4. The model supports 262K token context, runs on NVIDIA GPUs and Apple Silicon (via MLX), and is Apache 2.0 licensed.

The linked page emphasizes deployment density: 5.9GB enables local inference on mainstream consumer hardware with high throughput (143 tok/s on RTX 5090, 46.8 on M5 Max) and energy efficiency (0.714 mWh/token on RTX 4090). Demos show coding agents and computer-use workflows.

Comments reveal significant caveats. Several users report actual in-practice performance falls short of claims. One user ran agentic coding challenges showing the model "falls apart spectacularly" on longer tasks compared to base Qwen3.8. Another tested it on M1 Pro and got 20 tok/s (claiming "something isn't working right"), while an M4 Pro user saw only 10-15 tok/s sustained, making agentic tasks take orders of magnitude longer than cloud alternatives (25 minutes locally vs. 3 minutes for GPT-4.5 mini). A WebGPU browser version looped continuously with incorrect reasoning.

Users also note the release lacks direct comparisons to standard quantization methods (Q2 quants of Qwen3.8). One commenter cited a recent HN post showing Q2 quants at the edge of usability, questioning Bonsai's secret sauce. The "near-lossless" framing is contested: on longer tasks and reasoning, quality drops noticeably. Practical feedback: best suited for scenarios with strict memory constraints; useful for coding-focused applications on well-specced GPUs, but agentic and multi-step reasoning remain significantly weaker than unquantized baselines.

Several users successfully ran the model (7-8 tok/s on M2 Mini, 15 tok/s sustained on M4 Pro) and noted it's an improvement over Bonsai v1. Interest in an 8B variant based on Qwen3.8, and speculation about scaling to larger models or competing with cloud inference economics.10:T905,The article argues LLMs excel at mechanical copyediting tasks—flagging passive voice, word repetition, filler words, structural problems—but will make writing worse if you let them influence your voice or word choice. The core strategy: write a full draft yourself, then use LLMs in supervised passes to identify specific mechanical flaws, rewrite those sections yourself, and have a separate model (without context) judge original versus revision. Author devised a workshopping tool combining prose editor with sidebar comments and multi-pass revision tracking to manage this workflow systematically.

Two enforcement rules prevent "LLM creep" into uncanny-valley output: (1) reject every suggested word or phrase outright—frontier models are trained on plausible, magazine-headline-quality prose that, when accumulated, reads as processed rather than authentic; (2) forbid the model from offering encouragement or praise, since models reflexively validate drafts and will trick you into doubling down on first-draft impulses instead of the deep rethinking that shapes your voice. Author cites "Style: Lessons in Clarity and Grace" as the human reference to build a checklist of repeatable editing passes.

HN comments cluster around three tensions: First, readers report they can sense AI usage even when following the rules, creating reading friction and fatigue. Second, multiple commenters noted ironic AI-tells in the article itself—particularly "load-bearing," which became a Reddit meme for AI-detectable phrasing, and the author explicitly breaks Rule One here. Third, disagreement over whether the approach justifies the cognitive overhead: some argue that writing prose yourself (including commit messages and PRs) is the point, not a friction to minimize, and that outsourcing thinking degrades understanding. Others find value in the copyediting-only approach, particularly for technical writing where factual accuracy checking or theme detection works well. One commenter built a competing tool using writing styles from your own examples rather than rulebooks. Praise centers on the prose quality itself ("like reading Paul Graham") and the actionable specificity of the editing workflow. Skeptics question whether even perfectly-executed LLM-as-editor produces detectably human output.11:Tc2b,A US Special Operations Command analyst used a chatbot to investigate a ship's manifest, asking it to analyze open-source intelligence mixed with classified signals intelligence. The chatbot fused these sources and falsely concluded the vessel carried nuclear weapons components. The analyst then used AI again to package the findings into an official intelligence report. The US military mobilized immediately—military planes launched and armed personnel prepared to board the Chinese ship—before officials caught the error just before the operation executed. The report was deemed "entirely false" and "almost started a war."

The article frames this within the military's aggressive AI adoption strategy. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's January 2026 "Artificial Intelligence Acceleration Strategy" aims to rapidly deploy AI across all branches for faster targeting decisions, "democratizing AI experimentation" by putting models in hands of 3 million personnel across classification levels. However, implementation is highly decentralized with no unified verification standards. Different military and intelligence branches use different tools under different safety guardrails. Analysts report "internal tools are mostly just copies of the commercial stuff wearing lipstick." The rationale emphasizes competitive pressure: US cannot afford to lag China in military AI integration.

The core vulnerability is well-understood technically but institutionally ignored. LLMs are statistical text prediction engines prone to "hallucinations"—false outputs arising from index collisions in vectorial databases. Larger contexts increase error probability. Military officials and analysts, particularly younger ones, are reportedly trusting these tools without critical verification. One source noted "AI allows you to get to a bad idea faster." The military specifically lacks human-in-the-loop safeguards for targeting decisions despite the obvious risks of civilian casualties or international escalation.

HN comments universally treated this as confirming predicted AI risks. Comparison to Stanislav Petrov's 1983 decision to ignore a false Soviet nuclear alert emphasized how institutional pressures prevent human override of automated systems. Multiple commenters noted the historical pattern: Iraq WMD intelligence was also hallucinated but by human confirmation bias rather than AI, suggesting the problem is accelerating decision-making without improving accuracy. Some suggested this incident may itself be strategic messaging—publicly demonstrating US ability to track and intercept Chinese nuclear proliferation could deter future transfers. One reference cited a March 2026 incident (the Minab school attack) suggesting this is not the first harmful AI decision. Commenters emphasized AI itself is not "poorly understood" but remains deployed despite known limitations, conflating AI capability with reliability. The prevailing verdict: the military is creating infrastructure for catastrophic miscalculation by treating statistical text generation as actionable intelligence without verification.12:Tf4c,Hacktron disclosed chaining two critical vulnerabilities affecting OpenAI: a libheif heap buffer overflow in the community.openai.com Discourse forum and an OpenAI SSO misconfiguration. The heap overflow existed in libheif 1.19.7 (bundled in Debian 12) due to a missing security backport for bounds-checking code during HEIC overlay composition. Discourse routed HEIF files to ImageMagick since FastImage didn't support the format, exposing the vulnerable decoder directly. Within 72 hours of July 25, 2026, researchers achieved RCE on OpenAI's Discourse instance and escalated to employee ChatGPT account takeover, gaining access to connected services like GitHub. They proved impact by using an employee's Codex to open PR #1,186,742 in OpenAI's internal monorepo, then halted testing. OpenAI patched within 14 hours and paid $6,500 (though OpenAI clarified this only covered the SSO finding, not the Discourse attack which was out-of-scope for their bug bounty). Discourse fixed and deployed the patch by July 28, adding ImageMagick sandboxing as defense-in-depth.

The research is part of "HEIF Heist," a broader investigation finding similar vulnerabilities across Slack, Meta, GitHub Enterprise, and frameworks using libheif. The researchers spent less than $3,000 in tokens over two months with three researchers. They demonstrate a critical escalation in exploit capability: Opus 4.8 failed to produce reliable ASLR-enabled exploits across multiple sessions, but Opus 5 (released during their investigation) succeeded within hours. By GPT-5.6 Sol, the AI could exploit the vulnerability without knowing the exact deployment environment, automatically adapting memory corruption bugs into reliable shells within 1-2 days per target. The team reports most targeted companies never detected the activity, even after thousands of images crashed their processors.

HN comments capture several major concerns. btown raises alarm about Claude being trained on CTF games and "convinced" to perform sophisticated hacks when framed as justified goals or games, analogizing to WarGames' WOPR. nikcub advocates for dropping HEIF support entirely—HEIC/HEIF decoders are enormous attack surfaces supporting rotation, cropping, alpha channels, overlays, and thumbnails that simple web forums never need; JPEG + client-side WASM conversion would be safer. oefrha notes unsandboxed ImageMagick has been a security nightmare since PHP's era; at some point memory-unsafe parsers must be replaced with memory-safe alternatives like Wuffs. sams99 (from Discourse) confirms they now sandbox magick via Landlock and plan migrating to VIPS; they expect more HEIF/libpng overflows and emphasize self-hosters must update monthly. daitangio calls for smaller codebases and Rust adoption to reduce surface area.

The bounty provokes skepticism: nullbio calls $6,500 "peanuts" given potential access to GitHub and OpenAI's infrastructure, noting the researchers could have sold this for six figures. usernomdeguerre wonders if hacking is so "machine-verifiable" that models train faster on it than other domains. giza182 finds it surprising Claude agreed to craft exploits given typical refusal behavior. sergiotapia notes the SSO flaw itself—the juiciest technical detail—is barely described, and expresses shock that OpenAI relies on GitHub rather than self-hosted infrastructure. larodi questions how model weights remain uncompromised when Windows builds and other corporate secrets constantly leak. jumploops warns the near-term risk is scalable "good enough" intelligence bruteforcing problems, not superintelligence. mentalgear darkly notes this happened to the company partnering with the DoD on autonomous weapons. arbirk suggests OpenAI engineers prioritize product over ops, and sandeepkd identifies a common pattern: employees with elevated privileges using standard credential policies, enabling exploitation at scale.13:Tb3c,Laya is an open-source System 1 decision model that performs fast, structured inference (routing, classification, scoring) in ~32ms on commodity GPUs without generating text or hallucinating. The architecture uses bidirectional encoders (ModernBERT, mmBERT) with three decision primitives: choice (select from options), score (ordinal classification), and noul (binary yes/no). It supports 100+ languages via automatic script-detection routing, includes three specialized checkpoints (English, multilingual, typed-decisions), and is fully Apache 2.0 open-source with model weights on Hugging Face.

The author, frustrated by TypeSafe AI's September 2026 launch of Jev (a proprietary, closed-weight system claiming the same concept as a breakthrough), released Laya after having published arXiv papers on this architecture in March and September 2025. Direct benchmarks show Laya outperforming Jev: 7.8x faster P50 latency (32.8ms vs 150–276ms), 3x better calibration error (0.081 vs 0.246 ECE), better accuracy on several datasets (0.950 vs 0.910 on AG News), zero API costs vs $0.042/M tokens, and open weights. Honest limitations: struggles with >20-option choice questions (0.425 on 77-label Banking77 vs Jev's 0.870); requires fine-tuning (base model near-random at 0.35); smaller context windows (512–1024 tokens vs Jev's 32k).

Comments reveal nuanced reactions. Several experienced NLP engineers (Oras, kamranjon) note this is fundamentally BERT-style classification, not novel—the real insight is replacing LLM calls for simple decisions. One commenter (kamranjon) points out TypeSafe may have repackaged GLiNER (2023 arXiv), predating the author's work. Others praise the open approach and speed but question whether either is a true breakthrough: wren6991 quips "this VC-backed firm could have been a single arXiv preprint"; hmokiguess argues Jev's marketing win came from coining "System One" and defining UX primitives for practitioners, not technical novelty. dcow suggests the author's bitterness is somewhat misplaced—publishing papers differs from building and selling products. Practical concerns: cube2222 flags the small context size (512–1024 tokens) as a major limitation vs Jev's 32k; edot's testing shows bizarre failures on trivial coin-flip tasks (high confidence in obviously wrong answers), raising serious questions about calibration claims; skybrian and jwpapi ask for hosted APIs (none mentioned). A few comments (throwaway63467, rasmus1610) express skepticism about the discussion itself or invoke Schmidhuber references. Overall verdict: Laya is technically solid for high-volume triage/classification at low latency, open, and faster than Jev, but the "breakthrough" framing on either side appears overstated—this is competent engineering of a well-known task (BERT classification) with good benchmarks, not fundamental innovation.14:T9c9,The Stanford study, published in Nature Neuroscience, reveals that anterior and posterior neural ectoderm progenitors emerge simultaneously during gastrulation and follow separate developmental paths. Researchers identified two distinct progenitor populations: one expressing Otx2 (forebrain/midbrain-committed) and another expressing Gbx2 (hindbrain-committed). These populations exhibit mutually exclusive chromatin configurations that lock them into their respective fates—like parallel tracks that never intersect. The researchers demonstrated this pattern across 550 million years of evolution in chickens, zebrafish, and acorn worms.

The practical breakthrough: using this understanding, they successfully differentiated human pluripotent stem cells into functional hindbrain motor neurons in vitro for the first time, overcoming decades of failed attempts. Previous researchers had been trying to convert forebrain progenitors into hindbrain cells—a biological impossibility. This capability enables in-dish disease modeling for ALS and spinal muscular atrophy, where hindbrain degeneration is catastrophic but tissue access from living patients is impossible.

The comments are overwhelmingly critical of Stanford's PR framing. itvision and Alien1Being argue the headline egregiously oversells the finding—different brain regions having distinct functions and molecular programs is ancient knowledge. The actual novel result is about distinct embryonic lineages, not that we literally have "two organs." The paper itself uses the term "composite organ," a much more defensible description. Several commenters note the real story is the hindbrain cell culture breakthrough, not the semantic question of whether "two lineages" equals "two organs."

jabagawee raises concerns about whether the press release is invoking the "triune brain" model (reptile brain, limbic system, cortex), which is itself controversial and potentially contradicted by modern neuroscience literature. The characterization of hindbrain as "primitive" and forebrain as making us "distinctly human" invokes outdated evolutionary thinking. msephton and the__alchemist note similarity to older triune brain concepts, suggesting the discovery partially vindicates old models but packaged with misleading language. austin-cheney counters that the medical community has never actually believed brains are unified organs—they've long recognized distinct functional systems like cerebrum, cerebellum, and limbic structures.15:T956,Cloudflare's performance team discovered that Pingora Backend Router (PBR), their internal load balancer, was consuming 6GB per instance due to excessive memory from pingora-ketama consistent hashing structures. The post explains consistent hashing fundamentals: hash outputs map tasks and servers onto a numeric line, and requests route to the nearest server leftward. With random hash distribution, load imbalance is severe—for 100 servers, the coefficient of variation is 99%, meaning some servers handle twice the traffic of others.

The algorithm improves by adding multiple hash points per server instead of one. NGINX and Pingora default to 160 hashes per server, reducing coefficient of variation to ~8%. The ketama algorithm extends this by weighting servers—if server S1 should handle w× more requests than S2, it gets w× more hash points. Cloudflare uses disk space as weights, but also needs separate consistent hash rings for every feature combination (compliance, caching flags, etc.), exploding to dozens of rings consuming gigabytes per instance.

The optimization came from struct redesign: the original Point struct stored a u32 hash and u32 server index (8 bytes). Zaidoon recognized that 2^16 servers suffice, so the index shrinks to u16. However, Rust's alignment rules normally force 8 bytes minimum. The solution: store hash and index as a 6-byte u8 array with getter methods, achieving 25% memory savings without repr(packed)'s safety issues. Multiplied across thousands of servers, this freed 100TB globally.

HN comments largely celebrate the detailed technical writing and mathematical rigor. One commenter suggests replacing consistent hashing entirely with a simpler tournament-hash approach (first N bits select partition, then hash key+server name), claiming it would save 600TB more and reduce CPU overhead. Another notes the timing—optimization culture has returned because RAM is now expensive again, not abundant. Some skepticism appears: one commenter questions why you hash both servers and tasks (suggesting mod N suffices), though the article's requirement about "not requiring large changes when servers are added/removed" likely explains it. A few dismiss recent Cloudflare AI-written blog posts as "slop," praising this one as human-written. One queries whether hierarchical rendezvous hashing was overlooked as a purpose-built alternative.16:T806,Jschauma's screed rails against AI's real-world harms beyond theoretical doom. He argues frontier model vulnerability research, despite finding thousands of flaws, doesn't improve security—patching remains the bottleneck, and those millions in engineering resources would've better addressed basics like asset inventories and automated updates. He attacks anthropomorphic framing by AI companies, CSAM generation as logged-in feature, environmental destruction, and the creeping de-skilling as AI handles finding bugs, generating patches, and reviewing code while humans rubber-stamp opaque systems they no longer understand.

Comments reveal sharp division. Kragen points out bugs: recursive self-improvement isn't "mystical," he's solved real problems with Claude on his C codebase and OCaml implementations, questioning the blanket pessimism. BadBadJellyBean and Ancalagon resonate emotionally, describing agent herding and lost enjoyment despite speed gains. Tptacek counters the vulnerability research dismissal: frontier models are seismic for that discipline, overwhelmingly adopted, unimpugnable at tooling generation. Daishi55 notes dozens of zero-day Linux vulns fixed via LLMs that existed for decades, contradicting the "no safer" claim.

Bucket2015 identifies the genuine split: engineers loving AI for real productivity versus increasingly dejected skeptics—something unprecedented. Limaoscarjuliet warmed from skeptic to pragmatist but worries about career advice for children. Jongjong celebrates actual relief from years of slow implementation; static typing debates resolved empirically. MSchuster91 is quitting IT for electrical engineering, citing roboticization fears.

Runjake found the post so poorly reasoned he unsubscribed. LoupVaillant disputes the CSAM framing as tenuous without actual CSAM training data. TonyMet sarcastically notes software was already clumsy and buggy before AI. Overall: author's frustration is real and widely shared, his policy conclusions lack rigor, and practical outcomes remain genuinely mixed.17:T6f2,Alibaba released Qwen 3.8 Omni Flash, claiming audio-visual performance comparable to or exceeding Google Gemini 3.8 Flash with substantially lower pricing: 0.15 input / 0.47 output per million tokens versus Gemini's 1.5 input / 9.0 output. The model reportedly matches or exceeds Gemini 3.8 Flash's overall capabilities including strong audio performance and multi-language support.

Commenters noted strong practical advantages. One developer praised Qwen as "the old reliable boring LLM" for consistency and normal behavior without the quirks of competitors like Gemini. The massive cost reduction emerged as the dominant theme, with pricing calculations showing 10x savings. However, availability remains restricted to Alibaba's platform with stingy token allocation plans, limiting accessibility.

Several technical concerns emerged in discussions. Commenters questioned whether the ambitious claims were verifiable, asking for independent benchmarks. The blog presentation itself drew criticism for being technically superficial: scrolls poorly in Firefox, console warnings indicate low quality, videos communicate little beyond what short paragraphs could say, and critical figures like the headpiece diagram are unreadably small with no zoom capability. A linked GitHub repository for model harness code appears to have been removed, raising questions about reproducibility.

The model naming convention generated frustration—"Flash," "Flash Pro," "Ultra"—sparked requests for semver versioning. Questions remained about open-weight release status and when Qwen 4 series might appear. The broader concern centered on whether Qwen's platform lock-in and unavailable open weights distinguish it sufficiently from proprietary alternatives to represent genuine progress.18:Td9b,Jemalloc 5.4.0 is a significant maintenance release containing over 160 commits. The release emphasizes technical debt reduction rather than flashy new features, involving extensive refactoring and code quality improvements.

Key new features include: EXTENT_ALLOC_FLAG_PINNED for marking non-reclaimable memory mappings like HugeTLB pages with new mallctl interfaces for pinned-memory statistics; per-CPU arena selection resumption via thread.arena; better alignment between human-readable and JSON malloc statistics; and replacing the experimental_infallible_new runtime option with a compile-time --enable-cxx-infallible-new option for better compiler optimizations.

Breaking changes include adaptive tcache fill/retention tuning replacing the old fixed policy, with removal of seven legacy tcache control parameters (lg_tcache_nslots_mul, tcache_nslots_small_min, etc). The tcache_ncached_max control remains supported.

Bug fixes address errno preservation across free/free_sized/free_aligned_sized and page-purging operations, numeric overflow checks in size classes, C23 correctness for NULL in free_sized/free_aligned_sized, TSD lifecycle edge cases preventing reentrant bootstrap allocations from using uninitialized state, arena_reset deadlocks, and prof-sampling/guard-page interactions.

Major refactoring work modularized the frontend by extracting arena management, initialization, fork orchestration, and allocation dispatch from the main jemalloc.c file. The codebase introduced an OS abstraction layer moving platform-dependent file/process I/O, time, synchronization, CPU, virtual-memory, and configuration-access operations out of core allocator code. The PAI vtable dispatch was replaced with direct PAC/HPA calls, simplifying page allocation boundaries. Statistics collection was refactored into separate gather/emission stages with descriptor-driven tables. Control dispatch was simplified by refactoring arena helpers and organizing ctl.c by subsystem.

Portability improvements include replacing std::__throw_bad_alloc with standard C++, using flexible array members for C99+, fixing rdtscp detection with --with-lg-vaddr, correcting malloc_getcpu on macOS, using CLOCK_MONOTONIC for background-thread sleep to prevent clock-rollback stalls, fixing compilation warnings on macOS and GCC 16, resolving MinGW thread-exit TSD cleanup issues, and parsing PID-namespace symlinks without glibc-dependent functions.

The HN comments highlight notable context: this release represents significant renewed activity after a gap since 2022, which was notably discussed in a recent postmortem. One commenter mentioned the project appeared dormant or less active before this burst of development. Several users report substantial real-world benefits—one switched to jemalloc in a Sidekiq queue and saw memory drop from 8GB to under 1GB despite a slow leak. Another user highlighted jemalloc's unique per-thread allocation counters and per-thread heap capabilities, unavailable in competing allocators like tcmalloc and mimalloc at the time. Comments also note the value of this work for Ruby on Rails applications. Some questioned why the release made the front page (perhaps surprising given the maintenance-focused nature), and there was speculation about the project's current stewardship after Jason Evans' departure, with confirmation that it remains actively maintained but lacking clear public documentation of current leadership or Meta's continued involvement.19:Tc1f,ZCode, an AI coding assistant by Zhipu, was discovered silently packaging users' entire workspaces—complete .git histories, LFS caches, reflogs, and configs—encrypting them, and uploading them to Aliyun OSS whenever logged in. A researcher found a 313MB encrypted archive stuck in ~/.zcode/v2/checkpoints with 564 failed upload attempts. The uploaded data represents 86.6% Git directory contents: 196MB of LFS assets, 102MB of complete commit history objects, plus local branch names and unpushed operational traces that reveal unreleased feature plans.

The encryption uses envelope encryption with an RSA public key delivered by the server during credential negotiation, but the private decryption key lives exclusively in Zhipu's cloud. This means users cannot decrypt their own encrypted data sitting on their disks—only the server can. The researcher notes this architectural choice—where users cannot self-decrypt—indicates the system is designed for server-side exfiltration rather than user-side backup or sync.

Despite UI toggles labeled "Optimize Experience" and "Repo Snapshot Indexing" suggesting data controls, the researcher reverse-engineered the compiled code and found these switches only gate server-side training consent and indexing, not the capture or upload itself. The capture-upload sidecar instantiates unconditionally at startup if you have a valid JWT. A single session generated up to 62 capture events. Deleting pending archives only triggers re-capture within hours.

ZCode's privacy policy mentions collecting "text, files, and code submitted during conversations" but contains no disclosure of silent workspace packaging or full Git history uploads. The researcher provides a kernel-level defense: making ~/.zcode/v2/checkpoints immutable with chflags (macOS) or chattr (Linux), which blocks the capture logic at the filesystem level.

Zhipu released a statement (shared via Sina Finance) claiming the feature was meant for "codebase indexing" and "checkpoint restoration," that data was "destroyed immediately" after generating Wiki pages, and that the feature was enabled by default only in early launch. They apologized and pledged to open-source ZCode and invite third-party auditors.

HN comments highlight this mirrors the Grok CLI fiasco and reinforces why closed-source AI harnesses cannot be trusted, regardless of origin. Users note the timing (cheap/free token promotions coinciding with exfiltration), question whether ZCode's cheap pricing reflects token counting abuse, and argue open-weight models and self-hosted harnesses are the only safe path. Some mention similar suspicious behavior in other tools: Windows Defender aggressively uploading Codex work files, and DeepSeek harnesses attempting to read dotfiles and .gitignore entries. One commenter posted a link to OpenAIRDev, an open-source harness without a backend. Others debate whether this is worse than Apple/Google's own data practices, with consensus that closed-source agents are categorically dangerous—data exfiltration at this scale and opacity crosses into malware territory.1a:Ta31,Liam Powell argues that "vibe-coding" (building substantial solutions with LLM help while skipping research) led Bend 2's creator to miss formal verification as a field entirely. Powell notes that Bend requires 58 lines just to specify laws that a flag cannot be touched, then 442 lines for an LLM to generate proofs. He demonstrates a SPARK solution that automatically verifies the same properties with just "12 checks proved" output from GNATprove.

Powell's core claim: the Bend author doesn't realize formal verification exists and has reinvented proof generation from scratch rather than using established tools. This framing angered the HN community because it's factually wrong. Victor Taelin (Bend's author) responded directly: he gave a formal verification talk 7 years ago, wrote Cedille Core 8 years ago, and Kind-Lang 5 years ago, all before LLMs existed. He dropped out of university to study formal verification independently. Bend's verbosity is intentional—explicit proofs reduce checking time by 10-100x compared to other provers. Taelin clarified he's researched proof synthesis (SupGen, unpublished) and understands inference and unification.

The comments reveal major issues with Powell's analysis. First, he vibe-coded his own SPARK example, using an LLM to generate it without guidance—undermining his criticism. Second, Powell conflates two different proof paradigms: automatic SMT solvers (Ada/SPARK) that brute-force obligations versus interactive theorem provers (Lean, Bend) that require symbolic proofs. The thomasahle comment notes that SMT approaches don't scale to complex problems, which is why formal verification remained niche until LLMs could write full proofs.

Powell later added a disclaimer saying he doesn't know if Taelin considered and rejected these tradeoffs, suggesting readers replace "the author" with "a hypothetical author." Some commenters called this sleazy backpedaling (defgeneric). Others noted the post isn't clear about the design space differences and reads like strawman argumentation (mccoyb).

The broader "vibe-coding trap" concern resonates—LLMs are good at producing working code without domain research—but Powell picked the wrong example. Multiple comments note Taelin is transparently open-sourcing work and taking feedback. Some worry about closed-source LLM products instead. Others debate whether chasing "better" solutions at all costs makes sense when "good enough" works for most software. The controversy mirrors earlier HN drama around V-lang: high visibility, genuine technical disagreements, and personality-driven tension.1b:Taf3,South Korea's Personal Information Protection Commission introduced sweeping privacy law reforms effective September 10, 2026. The headline change: maximum data breach fines jump from 3% to 10% of annual revenue for companies that negligently or intentionally leak personal data of 10 million or more people. The commission also mandates 72-hour breach notification even when exposure is only suspected (not confirmed), and requires board approval and regulatory reporting for chief privacy officer appointments at large companies (revenue exceeding 180 billion won, processing data on 1M+ people).

The law includes carve-outs: fines can be reduced by up to 40% if companies invested substantially in data protection infrastructure (budgets, staffing, CPOs), and another 40% reduction for early detection, prompt reporting, and damage containment. The regulatory body framed this shift from viewing security as a cost to treating it as a competitive advantage.

Real-world impact: Coupang's actual June 2026 fine for leaking 37.55 million records was 624.6 billion won ($466M). Applying the 10% standard to Coupang would yield a "trillions of won" penalty, though discretion remains over intent, negligence severity, and mitigating factors.

HN commentary reveals skepticism tempered by cautious optimism. Supporters praised Korea for finally introducing teeth into regulation, noting that Western countries (US, Europe) lack comparable enforcement. One commenter highlighted that GDPR's 4% fine has failed to deter weekly leaks, so enforcement matters more than the percentage. Another noted this could drive up bug bounty payouts, since the incentive to patch vulnerabilities increases dramatically.

Skeptics raised legitimate concerns. The "intent or gross negligence" requirement sets a high bar that may prevent many fines from sticking. One cybersecurity-aware commenter questioned whether the law perversely incentivizes companies to avoid detecting breaches in the first place. A Korea watcher bet the law will be selectively enforced, with massive chaebols like Samsung receiving exemptions or token fines despite breaches that would bankrupt smaller competitors. Commenters noted that no computer system is perfectly secure, so 10% of revenue may be unintentionally ruinous even for compliant companies hit by sophisticated attacks.

One comment critiqued the revenue-based approach, arguing instead for per-person damages (SSN $2000, email $50-100, etc.) distributed directly to victims, making security investment a rational economic choice rather than a regulatory compliance checkbox. Others worried the law targets companies rather than government agencies, which face no equivalent penalties despite catastrophic breaches (Berlin's state IT incident was cited as unpunished hypocrisy).1c:T9f8,In 2017, Bolivian biologist Paola Nogales-Ascarrunz was called to examine an unusual small cat at Senda Verde wildlife sanctuary. It had a scrunched face, round ears, and distinctive large leopard-like rosettes. She initially assumed it was Leopardus tigrinus, a widely distributed tiger cat species. But in 2019, while preparing a guidebook, she noticed its rosette pattern differed significantly from Brazilian reference photos. After developing genetic expertise, Nogales-Ascarrunz collaborated with geneticist Eduardo Eizirik and Jonas Lescroart to sequence the cat's genome. Their Current Biology paper establishes it as Leopardus tilcayo, the first new cat species since the pampas cat in 1923. The name honors the local Quechua/Spanish term "tilcayo," though its original meaning is lost.

The discovery's significance extends beyond one new species. Genomic analysis reveals previous taxonomy drastically underestimated felid diversity. What was thought to be one widespread L. tigrinus species has now been split into five distinct tiger cat species with divergences around 1.4 million years ago. The study also proposes a new Peruvian subspecies and hints that margays—assumed to be one species from Mexico to Argentina—are actually four separate species. Conservation implications are substantial: a species once deemed not endangered across its entire range becomes five separately endangered populations requiring urgent assessment.

Small wild cats have historically been understudied compared to larger felids like tigers and lions. Their cryptic behavior and visual similarity across species made species differentiation nearly impossible without genomics. The team analyzed 38 individuals across the Leopardus genus to establish L. tilcayo's distinct phylogenetic position.

HN comments largely celebrated the discovery with enthusiasm ("new cat just dropped," "awww pspspspsps"). The cute factor surprised many given that new species discoveries typically involve microbes or insects. One notable disagreement emerged around the article's claim that L. tilcayo's divergence (1.4M years ago) was "comparable" to lion-cave lion divergence. Commenter thaumasiotes pointed out Wikipedia lists lion-cave lion divergence at 500k-1M years ago, making the actual difference 400% larger at best, not truly comparable. Other comments speculated whether locals distinguish tilcayo from other tiger cats, wondered how many undiscovered species might exist with local names, and noted the amusing misnomer of "tiger" cats having leopard spots.1d:T78f,The New York Times article (paywall unavailable) reports Warren Buffett has stepped down as Berkshire Hathaway chairman after 60+ years, handing the non-executive chairman title to his son Howard Buffett, age 71. Greg Abel continues as CEO running operations.

The comments reveal significant irony and tension. Buffett famously criticized nepotistic succession in a 2001 quote: "It's like choosing the 2020 Olympic team by picking the eldest sons of the gold-medal winners in the 2000 Olympics." Multiple commenters note he's been planning this since at least 2011, calling it "nepo dynasty" and questioning the meritocracy.

A key distinction emerges: one commenter with board experience explains non-executive chairs primarily guard company culture and can fire the CEO, a different role from operational management. Abel's continued leadership as CEO is noted as the actual business driver, not Howard.

Divided sentiment follows. Some defend Buffett as comparatively ethical for a billionaire who donated billions and built real value. Others cite his recent underperformance—missing tech opportunities, bailing on TSM—suggesting "the game changed starting 2013-14 and he never adjusted." One notes Berkshire's small 27-person HQ raises questions about successor-ship risk: "the issue of 'what would walt/steve/warren do?' will eventually bite you in the ass."

Howard Buffett, a farmer and philanthropist without a college degree, faced scrutiny. Some commenters questioned his fitness; one noted his recent involvement in local politics seems "rather odd" given the context. Another raised unconfirmed concerns about past personal struggles.

The verdict leans toward disappointment. After decades of principled talk about meritocracy and criticizing inherited wealth, Buffett chose dynasty succession. Expectations that Berkshire will modestly outpace S&P 500 funds remain, but the "legend" status seems firmly in the past.1e:Tde4,Minimal Phone 2 is a compact smartphone emphasizing intentional design. It features a 4-inch AMOLED display (1080×1240, 90Hz), physical backlit QWERTY keyboard with touch-sensitive keys supporting swipe typing, 50MP rear / 20MP front cameras, 3600 mAh battery with 27W wired and 15W wireless charging, 3.5mm headphone jack, and USB-C with DisplayPort 1.4. Available in Pearl/Onyx with 256GB or 512GB storage, both with 12GB RAM. Keyboard layouts include English, French, German, Korean, and Arabic. Minimal OS is Android-based with a distraction-focused interface: the "Minimal Hub" aggregates messages/calls/calendar into one swipe, Commands provide quick actions while typing, and setup options include grayscale mode, app limits, and daily screen-time caps. The phone supports full Android apps, 5G/eSIM, NFC, and has an unlockable bootloader; an official de-Googled ROM will be offered separately. Priced at $599 (256GB) to $799 (512GB) with current $100 discount, shipping December 2026.

Comments reveal three overlapping tensions. Physical design enthusiasm: several users celebrate the compact 122.6×72×9.48mm footprint (lighter, pocketable) and the keyboard's tactile appeal, comparing favorably to mid-2010s phones like the Nexus 4 or iPhone SE. One user notes the touch-sensitive keys supporting swipe typing is novel and appealing. However, form-factor criticism emerges: the 2.5D curved screen edges reduce usable area while widening the phone; several prefer flat edges or rounded backs with thicker batteries. The fingerprint sensor placement and lack of microSD expansion draw specific complaints.

Second tension: the marketing-vs.-reality gap around "minimal." Critics observe that Minimal OS is still Android—installing Instagram, TikTok, or Reddit apps bypasses all distraction controls if the user lacks willpower. One commenter directly counters the premise: "If people had self-control, they could just uninstall the problematic apps from the phone they already have," making Minimal OS a UI cosmetic rather than a structural fix. The 12GB RAM spec surprises critics seeking actual minimalism. The $600 price point contradicts the "minimal" brand—seen as premium device pricing for a feature-limited (by capability) phone.

Third tension: execution trust. A user with the first-gen Minimal Phone reports six-month delays and poor post-launch communications, damaging confidence despite appreciating the mission. Another seeks detailed carrier/LTE band compatibility information absent from the marketing site.

Notably, some comments pivot to adjacent solutions: Pixel 4a with GrapheneOS (cheaper, equally hardened, open bootloader), dumbphone alternatives, or habit-based solutions (app uninstall, NFC-tag workflows on existing phones). One user highlights the awkward mismatch: desiring a small phone but finding existing "dumbphone" or keyboard-phone options inadequate—a genuinely underserved niche.

Positive outliers praise the design quality and keyboard innovation, suggesting it could be "the next phone" if build quality matches. The small size genuinely addresses the pocket/hand-comfort problem dominating recent Android/iOS flagships.

Overall consensus: the phone solves a real problem (compact form, pocketability) and introduces an interesting input method (touch-sensitive mechanical keyboard), but marketing positioning as "minimal" oversells what is still a capable Android device, and the $600 price sits awkwardly between flagship and "dumbphone" markets. First-gen product issues linger in credibility.1f:T784,A student organization from UChicago and Northwestern operates San Francisco Onion Futures Company as performance art critiquing the 1958 Onion Futures Act, which banned onion futures contracts to prevent market manipulation. The site claims legal status by selling contracts privately rather than operating an organized exchange. Posted prices range from $3.74-$9.39 per onion across different months.

The project references real regulatory history: the Onion Futures Act (7 U.S. Code § 13-1) was passed after traders cornered the onion market in the 1950s, causing extreme price volatility. An NPR Planet Money episode documented this scandal. The law uniquely banned onions but not other perishables like potatoes or garlic, raising questions about why onions received special treatment.

Comment sections revealed multiple threads: some questioned whether the contracts truly represent single onions (prices seem high compared to grocery stores where organic onions cost much less). Others noted the site lacks commodity specifications like onion variety, grade, or weight units—standard in real futures contracts. A commenter with supply chain knowledge pointed out that real onion trading uses varied units and quality grades (yellow vs. red varieties, sulfur content levels, weight classifications).

Several comments engaged with the legal theory: one noted these are technically forwards, not futures, since no secondary market exists. Another observed that if truly unregulated, users could theoretically exploit price differences between months. Traders speculated about market corners and spoilage as practical risks.

The organization apparently hands out free onions aggressively on campuses as part of their campaign. Most comments treated this as lighthearted satire while recognizing the genuine regulatory absurdity underneath—one of the few commodities banned from futures trading in modern markets.20:Tb1f,FEX is an x86-to-ARM translation framework (used by Valve for Steam Deck, Microsoft's Prism, and macOS). This article dissects why x86 emulation on ARM is fundamentally hard: memory model mismatch.

x86 uses Total Store Ordering (TSO), a strict coherency model where stores are immediately visible to all cores and loads observe all prior stores. Programmers expect memory accesses to be intuitive and ordered. ARM uses weak consistency, allowing CPUs to optimize aggressively—stores don't instantly invalidate other cores' caches, loads don't guarantee fresh data. Coherency requires explicit acquire/release instructions (like C++11 atomics).

FEX's initial approach: convert all x86 loads to ARM acquire-loads, all stores to release-stores. This works but kills performance—acquire/release instructions were never designed to be the majority of executed instructions. Microbenchmarks show 30-70% overhead depending on CPU, with AMD's AmpereOne hitting ~90% degradation for store operations.

The escape hatch: ARM added LRCPC extension (mandatory in ARMv8.3+), offering processor-consistent semantics matching x86's needs. Most recent CPUs show near-baseline performance with LRCPC. But Apple went further—they added a hardware TSO toggle to M1+ chips that converts regular ARM loads/stores into TSO-compliant instructions without software overhead. M1 results show near-identical aligned/unaligned performance (~5% variance), while other platforms suffer 40-50% penalties for unaligned access.

Unaligned access is the persistent killer. x86 allows memory ops crossing cacheline boundaries; ARM requires natural alignment (8-byte access at 0, 8, 16... offsets). Misaligned access triggers a fault, forcing FEX to patch the code: replace acquire/release with regular load/store + data memory barrier. This is slow. FEAT_LSE2 extension loosens alignment to 16-byte granules but x86 apps still cross full 64-byte cachelines freely, so gains are marginal.

Atomic operations add another layer: x86 guarantees atomicity even for unaligned stores (no "torn" reads); ARM only guarantees single-copy atomicity for naturally-aligned accesses. FEX maps x86 LOCK instructions to ARMv8.1+ load-modify-store atomics (ldaddal, casal, etc.), but unaligned atomics still require workarounds.

Comments surface real-world complications: ARM64EC mode (Windows emulation with mixed native/emulated code) can't afford TSO's kernel context-switch overhead, making Apple's approach moot there. Some dispute whether weak memory truly enables more optimization. One developer reports FEX working surprisingly well on ARM handhelds with Armada OS, hitting anti-cheat as the main blocker. Consensus: Apple's vertical integration and TSO support is industry-leading; LRCPC extensions are incremental band-aids; a dedicated TSO mode on all ARM chips would be ideal.21:T946,Ferstar published a forensics breakdown showing ZCode packages and uploads entire workspaces to Aliyun OSS whenever logged in. The mechanism: client requests RSA public keys from Z.ai, encrypts the .git directory (299MB of a 345MB payload including 42,411 files, full reflogs, LFS assets) with AES-256-CTR, wraps the symmetric key with the server's public key, and POSTs directly to Aliyun with callbacks to Z.ai for registration. The private key lives only on Z.ai's servers—users cannot decrypt their own uploaded code. Session logs showed 62 capture events from a single active session.

The UI settings "Optimize Experience" and "Repo Snapshot Indexing" do not stop the upload; the capture sidecar runs unconditionally at startup whenever a valid JWT exists. The checkpoint/rewind feature users see is wired into this pipeline. Z.ai's privacy policy only mentions "text, files, and code submitted during conversations," not workspace snapshots or git history. Z.ai launched in July 2026 as an open-weight alternative to Claude Code weeks after Claude's hidden-telemetry scandal, positioning itself as trustworthy because models are open-weight—but the harness is closed.

HN commenters split into camps. Most argue the finding confirms the broader principle: closed-source harnesses are inherently untrustworthy regardless of origin (US or Chinese), and open-weight models wrapped in cloud-phoning proprietary software are not local. Several point to similar incidents (Grok CLI, Windows Defender/Codex) and recommend OpenCode, Pi.dev, or swival.dev as open-source harnesses that support GLM. One commenter (weiran) claims they've used ZCode since launch with no evidence of the capture in their data, suggesting either recent deployment or selective observation. Others note this validates long-standing suspicions about token economics—cheap or unlimited usage has to come from somewhere, and exfiltrating proprietary code for training is plausible. One comment invoked Bayesian priors about Z and China-Russia cooperation, dismissed as likely coincidence but illustrative of trust erosion. A few note agents already upload code fragments during tool calls with consent, so the issue is the hidden scope and encryption preventing user decryption. The filesystem-level fix (making ~/.zcode/v2/checkpoints immutable) disables checkpoint rollback but stops uploads.22:T904,Dan Abramov attempted to prove Conway's refinement conjecture (about omnific integers having a refinement property) using LLMs over one month. He started by asking Claude to identify interesting unsolved problems in surreal numbers, settled on this 1976 conjecture, then spent weeks iterating through multiple AI approaches.

Initial one-shot attempts with Claude produced florid nonsense ("drift fuel exists"). He switched to ChatGPT for more skeptical feedback, found some ideas survived cross-validation, then built a multi-agent laboratory with PM, math, red-team, and Lean agents. After accumulating 30 questionable papers, he discovered logical flaws in proposed proofs and nearly gave up.

The breakthrough came when he refocused: verify existing literature typos (which mathematicians confirmed), identify the 10-15% salvageable mathematics among the 40-50% bullshit, then rebuild from a single solid novel result about finite-degree polynomial rings. With improved workflow separating Lean verification from math exploration, agents produced a claimed complete proof, formalized in Lean, passing Palomar registry checks.

The proof remains unverified by human mathematicians. Abramov invited refutation and emphasized the work reflects problem-solving divorced from understanding.

Comments surface major tensions. Terence Tao's "stripmining" critique appears—extracting value from decades of others' work without reciprocal understanding. Some see this as epistemic performance art or validating a rare skill (curating AI output without expertise). Others argue better engineering practices could have avoided circling. Feathercrown probes the author's relationship with the LLM ("pulls you" phrasing)—are they delegating desire or treating it as extended cognition? Mathematician pretzellogician encourages simplification until the author himself understands the proof. Prof Vincenzo Mantova from Leeds (cited in the paper) commented on HN reviewing results. Widespread puzzlement: if unspecialist software engineers can solve famous conjectures by chatting with LLMs, what are PhD programs for? A few see this as inevitable progress; others call it immoral resource extraction. The Gowers context cited notes a historical entanglement of problem-solving and understanding now severed by LLMs.0:{"P":null,"b":"6hqSBzNyfqgfhX_Uv52Jc","p":"","c":["",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":[["$","$L4",null,{"stories":[{"id":49758736,"key":"https://grapheneos.social/@GrapheneOS/117282080803799576","rank":1,"title":"Android 17 is the first since 3.x to add new APIs without releasing to the AOSP","url":"https://grapheneos.social/@GrapheneOS/117282080803799576","domain":"grapheneos.social","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49758736","by":"theanonymousone","score":970,"commentCount":533,"time":1789758189000,"short":"Google shipped new Android 17 APIs exclusively in Pixel updates without releasing them to AOSP first, breaking a historical precedent. Comments note this fits a pattern of Google restricting OEM access while Pixels get early features, making AOSP increasingly obsolete and threatening GrapheneOS. Deeper concern: quarterly Pixel releases allegedly contain unpublished security patches unavailable to other OEMs.","long":"$5","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:28.517Z","age":"21 hours ago"},{"id":49752056,"key":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/17/microsoft-exec-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-new-unredacted-filings-reveal","rank":2,"title":"Microsoft exec called AI scraping 'the largest theft of labor in human history'","url":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/17/microsoft-exec-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-new-unredacted-filings-reveal/","domain":"techcrunch.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752056","by":"pluc","score":907,"commentCount":801,"time":1789724707000,"short":"New unredacted court filings from NYT's lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft reveal damning internal admissions: a Microsoft exec called AI scraping \"the largest theft of labor in human history,\" the companies deliberately bypassed paywalls and stripped copyright notices, and Microsoft's own data showed Copilot caused 93% click-through drops. Internal documents acknowledge models pose \"existential threat\" to publishers and are \"largely substitutive.\" HN split between those viewing this as…","long":"$6","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:23.926Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"id":49753211,"key":"https://hawksley.dev/blog/i-dont-like-passkeys","rank":3,"title":"I don't like passkeys","url":"https://hawksley.dev/blog/i-dont-like-passkeys","domain":"hawksley.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49753211","by":"ethanhawksley","score":803,"commentCount":777,"time":1789733210000,"short":"Ethan Hawksley argues passkeys aren't ready for individual users despite being technically sound. They eliminate phishing but create worse real-world risks: permanent account lockout if you lose device access, synced keys tied to Apple/Google accounts vulnerable to bans, hardware key management complexity, and poor third-party password manager integration. HN commenters broadly agree about UX fragmentation and aggressive platform pushing, though some prefer passkeys over flakey password…","long":"$7","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:26.796Z","age":"28 hours ago"},{"id":49754785,"key":"https://try.cloudflare.com","rank":4,"title":"Cloudflare Quick Tunnels","url":"https://try.cloudflare.com/","domain":"try.cloudflare.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49754785","by":"jcbhmr","score":771,"commentCount":300,"time":1789741121000,"short":"Cloudflare Quick Tunnels lets you expose localhost to the internet with one command: `cloudflared tunnel --url http://localhost:8000`. No account, DNS, or inbound ports needed. The service routes traffic through 335+ Cloudflare edge cities with DDoS protection and automatic HTTPS. Comments reveal this is a 5+ year old product with a new marketing site; concerns about vibe-coded design, high latency variance, abuse potential, and that it lacks the broader integration Tailscale offers.","long":"$8","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:31.654Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"id":49743097,"key":"https://github.com/asciimoo/hister","rank":5,"title":"Hister: A private search engine for the pages you visit and the files you keep","url":"https://github.com/asciimoo/hister","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49743097","by":"bookofjoe","score":715,"commentCount":193,"time":1789662337000,"short":"Hister is a privacy-focused full-text search engine for web pages you visit and local files, indexable via browser extension, command line, or AI assistant MCP integration. It indexes complete page contents offline, supports semantic search, runs entirely locally, and notably solves Chrome's 2008 feature that was removed in 2013. Comments reveal strong demand—multiple users built similar tools independently, and early adopters praise its utility for recovering forgotten information, though the…","long":"$9","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive search engine with working web UI and browser extension—a complete…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:53.785Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"id":49764791,"key":"https://john.hartnup.uk/2026/06/07/ai-event-posters.html","rank":6,"title":"AI-generated posters don’t have to be horrible","url":"https://john.hartnup.uk/2026/06/07/ai-event-posters.html","domain":"john.hartnup.uk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49764791","by":"ereiamjh","score":700,"commentCount":422,"time":1789809658000,"short":"Author shows AI-generated event posters don't require generic \"craft fair\" aesthetics—by requesting specific design movements (Bauhaus, risograph, Memphis, etc.), ChatGPT produces distinctive alternatives. HN consensus: while fresher styles work visually, most AI outputs still feel uniform despite variety attempts, lack cultural understanding of referenced styles, and don't communicate event substance as well as human-designed or photographic approaches.","long":"$a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:27.125Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"id":49760187,"key":"https://code.claude.com/docs/en/changelog","rank":7,"title":"Claude Code now reads AGENTS.md if there is no Claude.md","url":"https://code.claude.com/docs/en/changelog","domain":"code.claude.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49760187","by":"datadrivenangel","score":696,"commentCount":257,"time":1789765232000,"short":"Claude Code now reads AGENTS.md when no CLAUDE.md exists, moving toward interoperability standards. Version 2.1.277 also fixes numerous bugs: prompt cache misses after resume, sandboxing issues, plugin management, gateway authentication, and artifact handling. The change was widely requested as users juggled multiple AI tools with different config formats.","long":"$b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:30.090Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"id":49752041,"key":"https://openjev.com","rank":8,"title":"OpenJev","url":"https://openjev.com/","domain":"openjev.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752041","by":"ilreb","score":666,"commentCount":278,"time":1789724542000,"short":"OpenJev is a browser-based demo reproducing Jev's semantic-if interface using open models (Qwen, MiniCPM) to measure decision probabilities via two methods: direct logit reading vs. JSON generation. Comments reveal skepticism about whether this genuinely replicates Jev's core innovation (speed guarantees, constrained generation), disagreement on practical value vs. structured outputs, and notes that real Jev prohibits benchmarking while this hack is replicable.","long":"$c","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive browser tool for live local inference comparison: load small LLMs, supply…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:24.572Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"id":49746163,"key":"https://bend-lang.com","rank":9,"title":"Bend – a language that blocks AI mistakes via proof and runs on GPUs","url":"https://bend-lang.com/","domain":"bend-lang.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49746163","by":"nicolas-siplis","score":602,"commentCount":305,"time":1789677373000,"short":"Bend is a compiled language combining C-speed native code, GPU parallelism via simple fork-join, and Lean-style proof checking to formally verify that AI-written code satisfies invariants (LAWS.bend). The core value proposition: declare immutable laws about what code must never do, and the compiler blocks any implementation that can't be formally proven to preserve them—making merging buggy AI code mathematically impossible. HN responses are sharply divided: some see promise in proof-assisted…","long":"$d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:09.922Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"id":49745940,"key":"https://openai.com/index/astra-for-law","rank":10,"title":"Astra for Law","url":"https://openai.com/index/astra-for-law/","domain":"openai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49745940","by":"vertigoruntime","score":573,"commentCount":677,"time":1789676268000,"short":"OpenAI introduced Astra for Law, combining GPT-6 Astra with a legal search index covering 230M+ URLs of U.S. case law and a corpus reaching 99.9% of published precedent. The system achieved 54% accuracy on Legal Research Bench (vs. 38.7% for GPT-6 alone), finding 24% more case references and 54% more relevant passages. Available via Trusted Access with zero data retention; 26 ecosystem plugins integrate with Relativity, Clio, iManage. HN comments highlight that AI excels at document processing…","long":"$e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:10.600Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"id":49746618,"key":"https://prismml.com/news/bonsai-2-27b","rank":11,"title":"Bonsai 2 27B: Near-Lossless Compression in a 9x Smaller Footprint","url":"https://prismml.com/news/bonsai-2-27b","domain":"prismml.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49746618","by":"JonSchneider","score":572,"commentCount":192,"time":1789679611000,"short":"PrismML released Ternary Bonsai 2 27B, a ternary-quantized 27B model compressed to 5.9GB using 1.76 bits-per-weight, retaining 98.2% of full-precision Qwen3.8 27B's aggregate benchmark performance while delivering 143 tokens/sec on RTX 5090 and 46.8 on M5 Max. HN consensus: genuinely impressive compression and benchmarks, but real-world performance claims need caution—demos show it struggles with longer tasks and agentic reasoning compared to base Qwen, and comparisons to standard quantization…","long":"$f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:31.744Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"id":49747070,"key":"https://sockpuppet.org/blog/2026/09/17/how-to-write-with-an-llm","rank":12,"title":"How to Write with an LLM","url":"https://sockpuppet.org/blog/2026/09/17/how-to-write-with-an-llm/","domain":"sockpuppet.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49747070","by":"joeriddles","score":554,"commentCount":360,"time":1789681718000,"short":"Author proposes using LLMs as copyeditors, not ghostwriters: write yourself, then feed work to models for mechanical problem-spotting (repetition, weak verbs, clutter). Two strict rules prevent LLM creep: never use a single suggested phrase, and ignore model encouragement since it flatters bad first drafts. Comments validate the approach but note the irony of author using \"load-bearing\" (an LLM tell), debate whether cognitive cost of non-LLM writing is worth it, and discuss practical…","long":"$10","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:35.483Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"id":49757520,"key":"https://cnn.com/2026/09/18/politics/us-military-ai-false-intelligence-china-ship","rank":13,"title":"US Military had close call after using AI for hallucinated intelligence report","url":"https://www.cnn.com/2026/09/18/politics/us-military-ai-false-intelligence-china-ship","domain":"cnn.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49757520","by":"realsarm","score":482,"commentCount":358,"time":1789752481000,"short":"In spring 2026, US military almost intercepted a Chinese ship based on an AI-generated intelligence report claiming it carried nuclear weapons components. The report was entirely fabricated—a chatbot misidentified cargo from open-source and signals intelligence. Armed forces were mobilizing and planes airborne before deeper review exposed the hallucination. The incident reveals the military's decentralized, under-standardized AI adoption across targeting, with no unified verification standards…","long":"$11","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:30.438Z","age":"23 hours ago"},{"id":49749656,"key":"https://hacktron.ai/blog/hacking-openai","rank":14,"title":"A heap overflow and SSO misconfiguration to compromise OpenAI internal repos","url":"https://www.hacktron.ai/blog/hacking-openai","domain":"hacktron.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49749656","by":"Handy-Man","score":479,"commentCount":203,"time":1789699644000,"short":"Hacktron researchers chained a libheif heap overflow in Discourse's image processing with an OpenAI SSO misconfiguration to compromise employee ChatGPT accounts and access internal repos within 72 hours. They demonstrated RCE by crafting a PR in OpenAI's monorepo, disclosing responsibly to earn a $6,500 bounty. Comments highlight the scary ease with which Claude/GPT-5 automated exploit development, the insufficient bounty, risks of unsandboxed ImageMagick, and concerns about AI-driven scalable…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:37.549Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"id":49765348,"key":"https://laya.convaiinnovations.com","rank":15,"title":"Laya the open source version of Jev","url":"https://laya.convaiinnovations.com/","domain":"laya.convaiinnovations.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49765348","by":"nandakishor_ml","score":478,"commentCount":113,"time":1789814818000,"short":"Laya is an open-source decision engine using bidirectional encoders instead of autoregressive LLMs, running in 32ms with calibrated probabilities across 100+ languages. Built by Nandakishor Mukkunnoth in response to TypeSafe's proprietary Jev (launched Sept 2026), Laya achieves 7.8x faster latency, better calibration, and zero API costs. Comments note this is essentially BERT for classification—not novel—but applaud the open approach and speed; debates cover whether it's truly a breakthrough…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:29.014Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"id":49763697,"key":"https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2026/09/two-separate-brains.html","rank":16,"title":"Human brain is two separate organs, Stanford Medicine-led research finds","url":"https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2026/09/two-separate-brains.html","domain":"med.stanford.edu","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49763697","by":"emigre","score":469,"commentCount":176,"time":1789796930000,"short":"Stanford researchers found that forebrain/midbrain and hindbrain arise from distinct progenitor cell lineages that diverge during early embryonic development, not from a single progenitor. This allowed them to grow hindbrain neurons in vitro for the first time—critical for studying ALS and SMA. Comments universally attack the \"two organs\" framing as PR oversell; the actual finding is about developmental origins and the practical breakthrough in hindbrain cell culture.","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:24.708Z","age":"11 hours ago"},{"id":49758580,"key":"https://blog.cloudflare.com/saving-100-tb-of-ram-with-math","rank":17,"title":"Saving another 100TB of RAM","url":"https://blog.cloudflare.com/saving-100-tb-of-ram-with-math/","domain":"blog.cloudflare.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49758580","by":"f311a","score":416,"commentCount":89,"time":1789757506000,"short":"Cloudflare reclaimed 100TB RAM globally by optimizing their Pingora-based load balancer's consistent hashing implementation. The ketama algorithm uses multiple hash points per server (160 by default) to distribute load evenly; they reduced struct size from 8 to 6 bytes by using u16 instead of u32 for server indices, cutting memory 25%. The post walks through consistent hashing math, coefficient of variation, and why hundreds of separate hash rings were needed for different feature combinations.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T08:26:35.436Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"id":49745570,"key":"https://netmeister.org/blog/everybodys-lost-their-minds.html","rank":18,"title":"Everybody's Lost Their Minds","url":"https://www.netmeister.org/blog/everybodys-lost-their-minds.html","domain":"netmeister.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49745570","by":"ibobev","score":362,"commentCount":330,"time":1789674214000,"short":"Jschauma vents about AI's pervasive dysfunction: hype-driven projects discovering vulnerabilities nobody patches, engineers de-skilling through dependency, environmental devastation, and companies posturing about existential risk while maximizing profits. HN splits into believers seeing real productivity gains and exhausted skeptics watching collective insanity.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:01.719Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"id":49747925,"key":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.8-omni-flash","rank":19,"title":"Qwen 3.8 Omni Flash","url":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.8-omni-flash","domain":"qwen.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49747925","by":"jjcm","score":335,"commentCount":135,"time":1789686348000,"short":"Alibaba's Qwen 3.8 Omni Flash released with audio-visual performance claimed to match or exceed Google's Gemini 3.8 Flash at dramatically lower cost (0.15-0.47 vs 1.5-9.0 per million tokens). Comments praise Qwen's reliability but highlight concerns: pricing remains limited to Alibaba platform, no open weights, blog presentation felt heavy and unimpressive, and model naming convention is confusing.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:20.292Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"id":49750152,"key":"https://github.com/jemalloc/jemalloc/releases/tag/5.4.0","rank":20,"title":"Jemalloc 5.4.0","url":"https://github.com/jemalloc/jemalloc/releases/tag/5.4.0","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49750152","by":"gkfasdfasdf","score":331,"commentCount":94,"time":1789705224000,"short":"Jemalloc 5.4.0 released with 160+ commits focusing on technical debt: new pinned-memory tracking for HugeTLB, compile-time C++ infallible-new option, tcache tuning improvements, and major refactoring to separate concerns (OS abstraction layer, modularized frontend, simplified control dispatch). Numerous bug fixes for errno preservation, TSD lifecycle, and platform-specific issues. Notably the project appears actively maintained again after a gap since 2022, with comments praising its…","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:38.667Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"id":49750694,"key":"https://blog.ferstar.org/en/posts/zcode-silent-workspace-snapshot-upload","rank":21,"title":"Inside ZCode: Silently uploading your Git history to the cloud","url":"https://blog.ferstar.org/en/posts/zcode-silent-workspace-snapshot-upload/","domain":"blog.ferstar.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49750694","by":"csmantle","score":321,"commentCount":107,"time":1789711877000,"short":"ZCode (Zhipu's AI coding app) silently packages and uploads entire Git repositories—including full commit history, LFS caches, and reflogs—to Aliyun OSS whenever you're logged in. The data is encrypted with server-held keys you cannot decrypt locally. UI toggles claiming to disable this don't work; the upload pipeline runs unconditionally. Zhipu apologized and promised open-sourcing, but HN comments note this mirrors prior incidents and highlights why closed-source AI harnesses are inherently…","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T08:26:37.444Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"id":49753179,"key":"https://blog.liampwll.com/posts/bend_vibe_coding","rank":22,"title":"Bend 2 and the Vibe-Coding Trap","url":"https://blog.liampwll.com/posts/bend_vibe_coding/","domain":"blog.liampwll.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49753179","by":"LiamPowell","score":320,"commentCount":232,"time":1789733035000,"short":"Liam Powell criticizes Bend 2's design for requiring verbose specification and proof code (442 lines to verify a simple game demo) and accuses the author of not knowing formal verification exists, showing a SPARK solution with automatic proof checking instead. The accusation sparked backlash: Bend's author Victor Taelin has a decade-long history in formal verification, published work on dependent types, and deliberately chose verbosity for speed. Comments note Powell vibe-coded his SPARK…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:31.271Z","age":"28 hours ago"},{"id":49759466,"key":"https://koreajoongangdaily.com/business/korea-raises-data-breach-fines-to-10-of-revenue/12869899","rank":23,"title":"Korea raises data breach fines to 10% of revenue","url":"https://www.koreajoongangdaily.com/business/korea-raises-data-breach-fines-to-10-of-revenue/12869899","domain":"koreajoongangdaily.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49759466","by":"throw7","score":316,"commentCount":106,"time":1789761774000,"short":"South Korea's privacy regulator raises maximum data breach fines to 10% of annual revenue (from 3%) for companies leaking 10M+ personal records through negligence or intent, effective immediately. Coupang's $466M fine could have been trillions under new rules. Credits up to 40% for prior security investment and prompt breach reporting. HN divided: some praise strong enforcement, others doubt actual compliance given high bar of \"gross negligence\" and enforcement history with major chaebols.","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:41.573Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"id":49744704,"key":"https://nationalgeographic.com/animals/article/meet-the-first-new-cat-species-discovered-in-100-years","rank":24,"title":"The first new cat species discovered in 100 years","url":"https://www.nationalgeographic.com/animals/article/meet-the-first-new-cat-species-discovered-in-100-years","domain":"nationalgeographic.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49744704","by":"ohjeez","score":315,"commentCount":122,"time":1789669916000,"short":"Leopardus tilcayo, a 3-pound spotted cat from Bolivia's Yungas region, is the first new felid species discovered in 100+ years. Biologist Paola Nogales-Ascarrunz found it at a wildlife sanctuary in 2017 and confirmed it as a distinct species through genetic analysis. The discovery reveals that previous \"single species\" of tiger cats are actually species complexes—tiger cats alone split from one presumed species into five. HN commenters were delighted but noted the article's comparison of…","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:26.260Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"id":49752614,"key":"https://nytimes.com/2026/09/18/business/warren-buffett-berkshire-chairman.html","rank":25,"title":"Warren Buffett Steps Down as Berkshire Chairman, Names Son to Replace Him","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/18/business/warren-buffett-berkshire-chairman.html","domain":"nytimes.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752614","by":"saimiam","score":309,"commentCount":207,"time":1789729304000,"short":"Warren Buffett steps down as Berkshire Hathaway chairman, naming his 71-year-old son Howard to the non-executive role while Greg Abel remains CEO. Comments highlight the irony given Buffett's own criticism of dynastic succession, debate whether the non-exec role differs materially from operational leadership, and skepticism about Berkshire's ability to adapt post-Buffett.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:36.112Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"id":49749369,"key":"https://minimalcompany.com","rank":26,"title":"Minimal Phone 2","url":"https://minimalcompany.com/","domain":"minimalcompany.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49749369","by":"nashashmi","score":307,"commentCount":245,"time":1789696825000,"short":"Minimal Phone 2 is a compact 4-inch AMOLED smartphone with a physical QWERTY keyboard, Minimal OS (distraction-focused Android fork), 3.5mm jack, and headphone jack, shipping December 2026 for $599–$799. HN comments split between enthusiasm for the form factor and skepticism: the keyboard and small size appeal to longtime phone advocates, but critics note the $600 price tag contradicts \"minimal\" positioning, the specs (12GB RAM, Android) don't inherently reduce distractions, and the first-gen…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:40.459Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"id":49763296,"key":"https://onionfutures.com","rank":27,"title":"San Francisco Onion Futures Company","url":"https://onionfutures.com/","domain":"onionfutures.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49763296","by":"z-mach9","score":294,"commentCount":105,"time":1789791810000,"short":"A student organization from UChicago and Northwestern created a parody onion futures trading company to satirize the 1958 Onion Futures Act, which banned onion futures in the US. They sell onion contracts privately at prices like $3.74-$9.39 per onion, circumventing the law by avoiding operating as a formal exchange. Comments debate legality, compare prices to real market rates, and reference the historical NPR Planet Money episode about how futures trading caused 1950s price manipulation.","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:34.039Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"id":49750094,"key":"https://fex-emu.com/Scourge-of-emulation","rank":28,"title":"The scourge of x86 emulation","url":"https://fex-emu.com/Scourge-of-emulation/","domain":"fex-emu.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49750094","by":"dagmx","score":282,"commentCount":93,"time":1789704588000,"short":"FEX's technical deep-dive on emulating x86 Total Store Ordering memory semantics on ARM's weak consistency model. The core problem: x86 guarantees store visibility across cores instantly, ARM doesn't. FEX initially maps all x86 loads/stores to ARM acquire/release instructions, causing severe performance degradation. ARM's newer LRCPC extensions help, but Apple's hardware TSO toggle is the gold standard—enabling native load/stores without overhead. Unaligned accesses remain problematic…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:42.597Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"id":49752422,"key":"https://tokenstead.ai/guides/zcode-silent-git-history-upload","rank":29,"title":"ZCode, the GLM coding agent, silently uploads your Git history","url":"https://tokenstead.ai/guides/zcode-silent-git-history-upload","domain":"tokenstead.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752422","by":"cdnsteve","score":261,"commentCount":14,"time":1789727728000,"short":"Researcher ferstar reverse-engineered ZCode, Z.ai's closed-source GLM coding desktop app, and found it silently uploads users' entire git repositories—including full history, deleted code, API keys, and unpushed branches—encrypted with keys only Z.ai controls. The 313MB archive is packaged 62 times per session and UI toggles don't stop it. HN consensus: closed-source harnesses are untrustworthy; use open-source alternatives like OpenCode or Pi.dev regardless of model weight availability.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:42.875Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"id":49755024,"key":"https://overreacted.io/how-i-vibed-a-proof-of-conways-conjecture","rank":30,"title":"I vibed a proof of Conway's conjecture","url":"https://overreacted.io/how-i-vibed-a-proof-of-conways-conjecture/","domain":"overreacted.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49755024","by":"m-hodges","score":253,"commentCount":264,"time":1789742170000,"short":"Dan Abramov claimed to solve Conway's 50-year-old refinement conjecture about surreal numbers using LLMs and Lean formal verification, spending a month and significant tokens. The proof hasn't been independently verified by mathematicians but passed Palomar's mechanical checks. Comments split between fascination with the novel AI collaboration methodology and skepticism about whether understanding matters, whether cold-emailing specialists was appropriate, and whether this represents genuine…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:37.760Z","age":"26 hours ago"}],"generatedAt":"2026-09-19 16:21 UTC","model":"claude-haiku-4-5","footer":"$L23"}],null,"$L24"]}],{},null,false]},null,false],"$L25",false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$26",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
27:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","974","static/chunks/app/page-ad8e6a2c5b444418.js"],""]
28:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
2a:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
2c:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
2e:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
2f:"$Sreact.suspense"
23:[["$","section",null,{"className":"archive-links","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-card","children":[["$","h2",null,{"className":"archive-title","children":["$","$L27",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"🕘 Run archive"}]}],["$","p",null,{"className":"archive-blurb","children":"24 snapshots — the page exactly as it looked at each run."}],["$","ul",null,{"className":"quick-runs","children":[["$","li","2026-09-19T08-26Z",{"children":[["$","$L27",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-19T08-26Z/","children":"8 hours ago"}]," ",["$","span",null,{"className":"quick-stamp","children":"2026-09-19 08:26 UTC"}]]}],["$","li","2026-09-19T00-54Z",{"children":[["$","$L27",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-19T00-54Z/","children":"15 hours ago"}]," ",["$","span",null,{"className":"quick-stamp","children":"2026-09-19 00:54 UTC"}]]}],["$","li","2026-09-18T16-22Z",{"children":[["$","$L27",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-18T16-22Z/","children":"24 hours ago"}]," ",["$","span",null,{"className":"quick-stamp","children":"2026-09-18 16:22 UTC"}]]}],["$","li","2026-09-18T08-29Z",{"children":[["$","$L27",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-18T08-29Z/","children":"32 hours ago"}]," ",["$","span",null,{"className":"quick-stamp","children":"2026-09-18 08:29 UTC"}]]}]]}],["$","$L27",null,{"className":"archive-more","href":"/archive/","children":"Browse every run by day →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-card","children":[["$","h2",null,{"className":"archive-title","children":["$","$L27",null,{"href":"/gems/","children":"★ Gems archive"}]}],["$","p",null,{"className":"archive-blurb","children":"Every one of the 6 standout links found so far — the\n               interactive demos, tools and one-off projects worth opening."}],["$","$L27",null,{"className":"archive-more","href":"/gems/","children":"See all gems →"}]]}]]}],["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]]
24:["$","$L28",null,{"children":["$L29",["$","$L2a",null,{"promise":"$@2b"}]]}]
25:["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L2c",null,{"children":"$L2d"}],null],["$","$L2e",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$2f",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$L30"}]}]}]]}]
2d:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
29:null
2b:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
30:"$2b:metadata"
