1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"QdaHvm6OKKcEzZKlMvX8a","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-10-09T16-26Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-10-09T16-26Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-10-09T16-26Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Ta9a,Margaret Hamilton died September 30, 2026, at age 90. She was the lead software engineer at MIT's Instrumentation Lab during NASA's Apollo program, managing over 400 people developing onboard flight software. Her most famous contribution came during Apollo 11's lunar landing when the computer detected a 1202 overload error moments before touchdown. Hamilton's team had engineered priority-driven software to shut down unnecessary tasks and prioritize mission-critical ones, allowing the landing to proceed. Earlier, she had designed "defensive" programming protocols after her daughter Lauren accidentally crashed a simulator by launching P01 during flight mode—a mistake that later occurred during Apollo 8, vindicating Hamilton's preventive approach.

Hamilton began her computing career at MIT in 1959 working on weather prediction with Edward Lorenz, then moved to Lincoln Laboratory on SAGE air defense systems before joining the Apollo project in 1965 as the first programmer and first female programmer on the software team. She authored over 130 publications and fought throughout her career to establish software engineering as a legitimate discipline equal to hardware engineering, coining the term "software engineer" when it was widely mocked. After Apollo, she founded Higher Order Software (1976) and Hamilton Technologies, developing the Universal Systems Language methodology for error prevention in complex systems.

Hamilton received the 2016 Presidential Medal of Freedom, NASA's Exceptional Space Act Award (2003), Computer History Museum Fellow Award (2017), and was inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame (2022). A famous photograph of her standing beside printouts of her Apollo code became iconic online and inspired a 2017 Lego minifigure set honoring women in NASA history. The Apollo code was added to GitHub in 2015.

HN commenters emphasized her legendary status and historic achievements. Multiple users highlighted the iconic photograph of Hamilton with the code stack, noting it often serves as people's first introduction to her. Commenters confirmed Hamilton coined "software engineer," with detailed quotes showing how the term was initially treated as a joke until software gained proper respect. Several mentioned meeting her decades later and being impressed by her continued engagement with advanced control systems theory. One commenter connected her early work on Lorenz's chaos theory research, another referenced useful resources like the Computer History Museum's oral history and the TX-0 hacking story from "Hackers." The overall sentiment expressed profound respect for her pioneering work, systems thinking, and role mentoring generations of engineers.13:Tae3,Anthropic released Claude Haiku 5.5, a dramatically cheaper and faster small model positioned for high-volume, cost-sensitive tasks like summaries, classification, and subagent work. Pricing dropped 90% (from $1.00/$5.00 to $0.10/$0.50 input/output) for requests under 100k tokens; over that threshold it rises to $0.50/$2.50. Haiku 5.5 is the fastest model at standard speed and matches GPT-6 Luna's pricing up to 100k tokens, though Luna remains cheaper at higher volumes due to its 272k token threshold and better tokenization. Anthropic also halved Sonnet 5.5 cache read costs (from $0.20 to $0.10) and introduced monthly API credits for Max ($100–$200) and Team ($500) subscribers to support agentic development.

Benchmarks show Haiku 5.5 outperforming Luna on most Anthropic tests: knowledge work (1620 vs 1437 on GDPval-AA), computer use (72.4% vs 48.9% on OSWorld offline), agentic coding (39.2% vs 16.4% on Terminal-Bench 4.0), and multidisciplinary reasoning (57.4% with tools vs unspecified for Luna). The model includes adjustable effort settings (low/medium/high/xhigh) trading cost for capability. Real customers reported 30% latency reductions and 2.5x faster inference; HubSpot achieved 92.8% accuracy on CRM tasks; AlphaSense saw statistically significant improvements on document QA; Box found 11-point score gains at half the latency.

Comments broadly validated the value proposition. Simon Willison tested visual reasoning (pelican-on-bicycle SVG rendering) across effort levels: low cost $0.0936 in 7 seconds but mangled output; max cost 3.3 cents in 5 minutes with perfect rendering. Haiku 5.5 now directly competes with Luna, with multiple users confirming capability parity or superiority at matching price for sub-100k workloads. Plotly benchmarked DataAnalyticsBench: Haiku 5.5 was 9x cheaper than Haiku 4.5, "2 letter grades better," and $0.38 to answer 40 analytics questions vs $15 for Opus. However, criticisms emerged: the 100k token threshold is "absurdly low" for agent workflows and causes sharp price jumps. One user reported poor performance and prompt leakage in latency-sensitive production tasks. Another noted Haiku underperformed on complex UI generation compared to Opus. Some questioned why Sonnet 5.5 (especially with cache read pricing halved) wouldn't be preferable in many scenarios. The model defaults to delegating hard tasks to larger models, showing awareness of its limits. Independent benchmarks (AIBenchy) placed it near Qwen 3.8 and Sonnet 5.5 capability but roughly twice Luna's cost on those tests—potentially due to different tokenization or prompting. The API credits for subscribers were praised for enabling free experimentation, though some speculated this signals Anthropic's path toward subscription-based API access.14:Ta13,The author—a developer using DeepSeek 4.1 Flash for a month across multiple projects—argues the model is indistinguishable from Opus when in use, yet costs orders of magnitude less. He attributes this to DeepSeek's 437x KV cache reduction versus their V1 model, enabling $1-2 all-day coding sessions under a $10/month OpenCode Go subscription. He contends the model is now "good enough" that chasing frontier models is irrational, particularly given environmental and economic costs. He also argues self-hosting isn't economical anymore due to API pricing, though predicts local deployments will improve soon.

The comment section dramatically complicates this narrative. Top-voted responses point out that subscribers to Claude ($20 or $100/month tiers) and ChatGPT experience unlimited or near-unlimited monthly token budgets far exceeding API costs—the real economic comparison isn't per-token pricing but fixed monthly spend. One user notes the $100 Claude subscription can be exhausted in a single 5-hour session if priced at API rates, making subscription economics broken for providers but irrelevant to users.

Critical disagreements emerge on quality. Several developers report Flash is better for execution/implementation tasks but worse for planning, orchestration, and design decisions—they use it as an agent executor beneath stronger models like GLM 5.3 or Opus 5.5. One developer reported "unacceptable quality loss" when using Flash as sole orchestrator. Another notes Flash uses 10x more tokens than GPT 6.1 Sol for equivalent output, negating the per-token savings. A user citing benchmarks claims Opus 5.5 is clearly superior and that open models lag by 6-12 months, not weeks.

Disagreements also surface on pricing sustainability. Comments suggest OpenAI and Anthropic are heavily subsidizing subscriptions—possibly unsustainably—and may eventually raise rates. One expert comments Meta is "freaking out" and undercutting aggressively with Muse 1.3. Some suggest Luna (another cheap model) is faster and cheaper than Flash, or that mimetic models are better positioned on the price-quality frontier.

A few developers confirm the author's experience enthusiastically, calling Flash a game-changer for their workflows and citing substantial cost savings. But the prevailing sentiment is that the absence of industry panic reflects: (1) existing subscription economics making API rates irrelevant, (2) Flash being adequate for narrow tasks but not frontier-capable, and (3) western labs remaining materially ahead with monthly cadence improvements.15:T9be,The Trump administration suspended Microsoft's ability to sponsor green cards, reportedly due to H1B visa practices. VP Vance characterized the typical pattern as companies posting jobs in small-town newspapers knowing no one will respond, then claiming they couldn't find American workers and using this pretext to hire cheaper foreign workers on H1B visas.

Comments confirmed this dynamic is widespread and documented. One commenter described their company hiring fresh foreign graduates on F-1 visas, extending their OPT status for up to three years, then filing repeated H1B petitions, with fallback contingency plans involving L1 transfers from European offices. Required job postings were allegedly made in employee kitchens at ~$80K salaries despite offering significantly more to fresh US graduates elsewhere.

Data comparisons showed Microsoft and TCS file far more green card applications through PERM labor certifications compared to companies like Oracle and Tesla, suggesting some companies exploit the system far more heavily than others. Commenters noted Amazon is actually the largest H1B user but escaped this enforcement action, raising concerns about selective weaponization rather than principled enforcement.

The broader criticism centered on the H1B system's fundamental flaws: the visa lottery is arbitrary, the prevailing wage requirement is easily gamed, employment-based green cards are artificially scarce (only ~70K per year from 1.4M total), and tying sponsorship to a single employer creates coercive leverage over workers seeking permanent status. One commenter suggested visa slots should be auctioned instead to direct hiring to areas of genuine labor shortage.

However, substantial disagreement emerged over consequences. Some argued visa restrictions won't create American jobs but will accelerate offshore hiring, reducing the incentive to establish US operations. Others countered that accepting cheaper foreign labor systematically suppresses American tech wages. A few defended legal immigration as net-positive, noting the system affects relatively small numbers compared to overall immigration policy.

Several comments highlighted the performative nature of enforcement: that this suspension feels like a targeted weapon against Microsoft specifically rather than addressing systemic fraud across all abusers. The concern is that selective enforcement by political preference rather than consistent rule application makes the outcome feel arbitrary.16:T9c8,Whistle is a compact speech recognition model released by Cactus Compute that transcribes 30-second audio clips in English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, and Polish. The 16.9 MB model runs entirely on CPU with no external dependencies, loads into the same quantized C++ engine as their Needle 3 LLM, and outputs transcriptions, per-word timestamps, and speech embeddings.

The architecture shares encoder blocks with Needle (eight Simple Attention layers with Monarch Hadamard MLPs) and uses a gated cross-attention decoder to fuse audio context. The model supports five-beam decoding with keyword biasing via Aho-Corasick automata, variable depth selection (2-8 decoder layers), and language detection plus forced-language modes. On benchmarks against Whisper base (145.3 MB) and Moonshine tiny v2 (41.9 MB), Whistle wins on LibriSpeech test-clean/other, SPGISpeech, and Earnings-22 while running 5x faster to first token (11.1 ms vs 73.2 ms) and achieving 1,319 tokens/sec decode throughput.

The deployment story is strong: prebuilt binaries for 17 platforms including ARM, RISC-V, WASI, Android, iOS, and browser; single-command pip install with optional mic capture support; and unified API that combines Whistle + Needle for voice-controlled automation (e.g., turning off lights via spoken command).

Comment consensus praised the achievement but highlighted gaps. Strengths: accuracy with accented speech, integration with home automation (one user retrofitted an Echo Show), real-world accuracy improvements via template matching, cross-platform support including RISC-V builds, and integration with LLMs for voice control. Weaknesses: no streaming output until recording stops (noted as essential for live apps); limited to seven languages (leaving non-English markets underserved); occasional hallucinations like repeating "Thank you" for long stretches of audio; weaker performance than Qwen STT on some user tests, though Whistle can be fine-tuned; struggles with uncommon terminology without domain adaptation.

Expert context: users compared favorably to Parakeet, noted the STT accuracy plateau means marginal gains ahead, and several mentioned Qwen's leaderboard performance. One user with a Croatian father appreciated accessible STT but noted every mouth sound gets transcribed. The core disagreement was whether size/speed matter more than accuracy for practical applications—consensus: both matter, accuracy especially for non-English speakers and technical vocabularies.17:T949,A man going by "Nomad" posted on X that his parents' smart Keurig coffee maker generated 1TB of network traffic in just 10 days. After his post went viral, Nomad clarified he works in IT and investigated further. He found the machine was generating massive local network traffic that saturated their home Wi-Fi access point, though most of the 1TB stayed within the home network rather than being exfiltrated to the internet. Keurig's own response indicated the device collects household data for advertisers. Nomad ultimately decided to unplug the machine and buy his parents a dumb coffee maker instead.

The Dexerto article body was minimal, but the Twitter thread and HN comments provide substantive context. A key correction came from commenters: doublepg23 noted that UniFi dashboards are notorious for miscalculating bandwidth usage, which might explain the numbers. However, altairprime confirmed that the original tweeter acknowledged the 1TB was local metadata scanning, not internet uploads, and that Keurig explicitly collects data for advertising purposes.

Strong disagreements emerged about the premise itself. eek2121 argued that buying smart appliances means accepting this trade-off—you're never truly owning the device, and dumb alternatives exist and cost less. jakub_g questioned the entire value proposition: what functional benefit does a smart coffee maker provide over walking a few meters and pushing a button? Multiple commenters (ttytty, BLKNSLVR) suggested the real solution is network isolation via dedicated VLANs and firewalls, but acknowledged this is unrealistic for non-technical users.

On the data collection angle, altern8 asked what value this data actually holds for advertisers. lifeisstillgood was horrified by privacy disclosures listing 1747 data partners. meindnoch and m4rtink called for regulatory action—certification requirements or jail time. landgenoot offered the incompetence-over-malice perspective: many IoT devices query update servers every 15 seconds, which compounds into massive traffic.

The prevailing HN sentiment: smart appliances are a privacy trap, government regulation is needed, non-technical consumers are helpless, and buying dumb devices is the only rational choice. The broader concern voiced by gxs: IoT devices with built-in SIM cards will make it impossible to isolate them from networks entirely.18:T990,OpenAI announced GPT-6 with a new "Intelligent UI" capability that generates interactive visual and component-based responses—diagrams, forms, calculators, charts, maps—tailored to each question rather than always returning text. The Sunday roast demo shows a comparison: GPT-5.6 returns walls of formatted text; GPT-6 produces an interactive checklist, shopping list by headcount, cooking timeline with drag-through progress. The system uses a compiler that streams components as they're generated rather than waiting for the full response.

The release also emphasizes speed: GPT-6 can begin answering while still reasoning, reducing latency by 44% on web-search queries compared to GPT-5.6. Two model tiers ship: GPT-6 Sol for paid tiers, GPT-6 Luna for free users. The team trained it on design judgment—when to use interactivity versus text, information hierarchy, clarity evaluation.

Safety claims: GPT-6 shows improved resistance to adversarial prompts and better boundary recognition versus GPT-5.6. However, the linked system card reveals regressions: GPT-6 Sol shows "statistically significant regression on standard self-harm," and Luna regresses on self-harm, gore, and sexual content, though both improve on helpfulness for legitimate requests.

Comment consensus leans positive on the idea but mixed on execution. Praise: mortenjorck notes we've now automated the Bartosz Ciechanowski–style explainer; csharpminor excited for meal-planning checklists; efields calls it a needed step away from verbose chat output. Concerns: revolvingthrow dislikes the "condescending" whitespace and emoji-heavy design, noting GPT-6.1 is more capable but wasn't chosen; ankit_mishra flags safety regressions documented yet shipped anyway; ddxv worries users will get unwanted UI boilerplate and hard-to-stop generation; xnickb sarcastically notes the blog player's own terrible UI. throwaway7783 asks if this is just OpenAI catching up to Anthropic artifacts. Some see it as value capture through visualization lock-in (mercurialsolo); others think it's oversold—rc-1140 notes it's still just a "slightly better search engine" for laypersons; program_whiz argues bill splitters and travel planners don't solve real problems, and real mobile apps already exist. virtuosarmo suspects it's a vector for ads (noting OpenAI just launched visual ad formats). A few dismiss it as forced (Danox) or worry it fragments ChatGPT further (bluerooibos).19:T8b0,The author began paying for Anwarite's boarding school fees (~$200/year) during a 2014 summer in a Tanzanian village where no local school exists. A decade later, Anwarite graduated from university with a language degree and gained master's program acceptance—remarkable in a region where only 2% finish university. Her master's costs $1,161 total. The author formalized this into Tanzania Education Project, a 501(c)(3) supporting five students' school fees and healthcare with zero overhead (all money goes directly to students). The long-term goal is universal education and healthcare access in the village.

The HN discussion surfaces both enthusiasm and practical concerns. Commenters celebrate the tangible, personal impact and the "slow experiment" premise of measuring village transformation. Multiple respondents share similar stories—one funded three Indian girls through college, another gave $100/month to a Brazilian friend. Several note the power of direct relationships over anonymous giving.

Accountability emerges as the main tension. One commenter detailed suspicion of a sponsorship organization that wouldn't facilitate video calls with their sponsored child, leading them to redirect funds to Doctors Without Borders. The author's direct relationship with Anwarite mitigates this, but scaling to five students raises questions about oversight and potential misuse. The author doesn't directly address these concerns in visible comments.

Operational suggestions include: using free hosting (Netlify) to redirect the $5/month hosting fee to students, highlighting 501(c)(3) status to access corporate and government grants, leveraging PayPal's nonprofit payment structure. One commenter notes a typo on the website (author confirms via email correction). A Cato Institute book ("The Beautiful Tree") is referenced as relevant reading on educational approaches.

Some pushback appears: one commenter questions what a language studies degree brings to a resource-constrained region, and another (avazhi) skeptically asks why this is on Hacker News—though this receives no substantial engagement. Overall, the thread is overwhelmingly supportive, with multiple donors announcing $100+ contributions.1a:Ta42,Bigwords.page is an open-source utility that transforms any web browser into a full-screen sign or display without requiring installation, accounts, or backend storage. The core innovation is encoding the message and all configuration as URL fragments (the part after #), which browsers never transmit to servers, ensuring complete privacy and eliminating server-side storage entirely.

The creator, SpeakingOfBrad, developed this because they needed to display a message on a remotely managed tablet but had no way to push content to it. The solution: make the URL itself the complete app and message. The tool supports auto-fitting text that scales to any screen size, from phones to stadium boards. Configuration uses simple URL parameters like &bg= for background color, &fg= for foreground, &font= for font size, and &interval= for slide transitions. Markdown formatting works (bold, italics, headings), and complex features include countdown timers ({countdown}), QR code generation, slide splitting (||), and CSS animations like pulse, scroll, or rainbow effects.

The HN comments reveal several themes. First, appreciation for the minimal, focused design: one user called it "the sort of incredibly simple, crisp idea that changes the world," while another noted the URL-as-state pattern as elegant argv-style configuration. Several users mentioned similar projects they'd built (screaming.saej.in, bigtext.k55.io, earth.wooleys.us), suggesting this solves a recurring need. One commenter discovered a Firefox bug with scrollWidth calculations that affects text sizing, and the creator's bug fix was already documented elsewhere.

Some criticisms emerged. ShinyLeftPad called out the marketing phrase "the URL is the app" as meaningless and AI-like. Another noted a potential security flaw: the unencoded URL hints at the message's content, spoiling surprises. A third questioned why it wasn't built with PHP for easier server deployment, though this misses the point—the entire appeal is being URL-based without server infrastructure.

Suggestions for enhancement include base64 encoding for URL privacy, mobile fullscreen mode toggles, GoogleTV/AppleTV app packaging, and natural URL encoding (browsers auto-encode spaces without manual %20). One user flagged documentation in the "Claudish" language that could be cleaned up.

The consensus is strongly positive: this is a clever, minimal tool that solves a real niche problem (digital signage without vendor lock-in) and works everywhere browsers exist. Its simplicity is its strength—no setup, no management, just a link you can bookmark, share, or QR-encode.1b:T12c8,Carson Gross, a CS professor at Montana State and creator of htmx, directly addresses whether students should pursue programming given AI. His answer is structured around "yes, and..."—yes, programming fundamentals remain valuable, and yes, how we practice it is changing.

His core argument: programming involves two enduring skills: problem-solving with computers and controlling complexity. AI threatens juniors specifically by enabling code generation without understanding, risking the "Sorcerer's Apprentice trap" of building unmaintainable systems. He explicitly warns students to resist using AI as a code generator; instead write code yourself to develop the visceral, reading-level understanding necessary in an AI future. The claim is that writing ability underpins reading ability.

On the Assembly→High Level Languages analogy: Gross rejects it. Compilers are deterministic; LLMs are not. You can reason precisely about how source code changes affect compiled output. With LLMs, the only way to know if rephrasing a prompt changes behavior is to run it. This fundamental unpredictability creates qualitative differences that high-level languages didn't introduce.

He positions AI as a teaching tool: used properly, it eliminates accidental complexity (toolchain frustration, obscure APIs) without eliminating the learning opportunity. Seniors can leverage AI effectively because they already know good code; juniors must resist the temptation to "vibe code."

Future skills he emphasizes: communication (prompt writing and business clarity), domain knowledge beyond code, and architectural thinking (organizing large systems, controlling complexity). He notes that effective vibe coders today are already excellent developers, supporting his theory.

Job market advice centers on networking (family, friends, family-of-friends) over online applications, and observing that companies of all sizes have software problems.

Comments reveal genuine tension:

**Support for core argument:** Multiple experienced developers agree fundamentals persist. One notes effective vibe coders are already strong developers. A comment on skill separation suggests reading and writing may be distinct—one commenter struggled with reading comprehension despite strong writing, implying intentional practice in both may be necessary. Networking advice resonates as timeless.

**Serious pushback on optimism:** One commenter claims LLMs already outperform them at meticulous guided coding; they're now effective technical leads directing AI rather than writing. Another saw 30% speed increases at their company, expects fewer devs needed overall, and wouldn't encourage their kids into programming—they'd suggest entrepreneurship instead. A recruiter noticed this year's college hires answer even open-ended business logic questions worse than prior years, suggesting coding fluency may already be declining measurably.

**Nuanced disagreement on determinism:** A C++ programmer argues LLMs are already *like* Assembly→High Level—you never know final output until benchmarking, just as undefined behavior and compiler optimizations make C++ output unpredictable until tested. Compiler determinism isn't as clean as Gross suggests.

**Alternative framings:** One developer does 30% hand-writing but uses AI comparatively—drafts solutions, compares with AI versions, ensures consistency. Describes themselves as "middle ground." Others argue the job becomes translator between industry domains (construction, logistics, mining) and AI, not code mastery. A startup founder claims they build decent complexity programs without writing any code using careful prompting. One proposes future programming will be natural language, making specific languages irrelevant but CS theory (networking, crypto) essential.

**Implementation skepticism:** Two comments directly state: juniors won't write code because companies won't let them prioritize understanding over speed, and non-technical management won't recognize complexity explosion issues later. The job market remains genuinely bad for juniors today, making advice to "invest time in mastery" feel disconnected from present survival needs.

**Cynicism:** One commenter dismisses the article as cope for boomers/older millennials, notes job security deteriorating across degrees, and suggests trades are better bets in wartime economy. Another suggests physical sciences or philosophy offer better value propositions.

The comment section splits between those who've successfully adapted to AI-assisted development and those who see it as genuine disruption that makes programming a worse career bet than historically. Agreement exists that fundamentals matter—disagreement is whether companies will structure incentives to allow juniors to build them.1c:Tbe5,The original Mastodon post by Terence Tao (unavailable) apparently advocates for a shift in how AI contributes to mathematics. Rather than AI labs autonomously solving famous open problems to generate publicity and benchmark achievements, Tao seems to argue that meaningful mathematical progress requires deeper engagement: exploring why solutions work, finding simpler proofs, understanding broader implications, and effectively communicating findings to the mathematical community.

The comments largely validate this concern while adding nuance. A core complaint: current AI-driven problem-solving resembles a venture capitalist playbook—solve the problem, announce victory, move on—rather than genuine mathematical scholarship. Several commenters note AI's strength lies in synthesizing existing knowledge across disparate fields, but it lacks the "step back and question fundamentals" thinking that drives paradigm shifts. One engineer notes LLMs rarely spontaneously suggest rethinking an entire approach from first principles, yet those insights define major scientific breakthroughs.

The "authorship" problem surfaces repeatedly. When AI autonomously produces a proof, the human prompter becomes merely a department chair figure—they don't understand the proof deeply enough to give talks, answer hard questions, or engage peers. This strips mathematics of its social and educational dimensions. Tao reportedly felt this acutely during talks about recent AI-derived results.

Commenters also raise the incentive problem. AI labs are pursuing flashy milestone announcements (proving Millennium Prize problems) because it demonstrates model capability to investors and boards. The mathematical community gets flooded with unvetted, unexplained proofs requiring enormous effort to verify and integrate. One voice notes it's become "a maniacal race with too much money" chasing exponential curves rather than genuine contribution.

Interestingly, some push back. A few suggest Ramanujan was similarly opaque—stating results without showing work—yet the mathematical community absorbed his contributions over time by doing the hard socializing work. Why not expect the same now? Others flag that future model generations might handle exposition and exploration automatically, rendering current concerns moot. One commenter points out that the real issue is incentive structures and hiring practices: as long as universities reward publication count over insight, AI will be exploited for volume rather than depth.

The meta-concern: mathematics is being reframed as pure problem-solving efficiency rather than as an art form requiring beauty, elegance, and human understanding. Quoting Hardy and Russell, some argue mathematics is sculpture-making; mass-producing incomprehensible proofs corrupts the discipline's core purpose.

There's also resignation: researchers face a credibility trap where a 3-5 year grant cycle becomes impossible to justify if AI might scoop your work. The incentive structure itself may need reimagining.1d:T8c1,Ryan Dahl announces Deno is joining Cloudflare. The entire Deno team will shift focus to celld, a distributed application framework built on Cloudflare Workers and Durable Objects. Concrete changes: Deno runtime receives bug fixes and security updates for one year, then development stops (open source continues if others maintain it). Deno Deploy operating for six months before shutdown, with migration support to Cloudflare Workers. JSR package registry continues at Cloudflare. Rusty_v8 integration with workerd continues. Dahl frames the move as natural progression from questioning how to build server software, through Deno and Deno Deploy, to celld's simplified distributed model with scaling built into the programming model rather than ad-hoc infrastructure.

HN comments reveal substantial disappointment. Commenters view this as an "acquihire" killing Deno. Multiple note this validates staying with Node.js: despite io.js, Bun, and Deno challenges, mainstream wins through network effects. One commenter observed this happening when Deno added npm compatibility—the original vision of building Node from first principles got diluted. Another bitterly notes Dahl pushed Deno hard for years only to abandon it within a year of joining Cloudflare. Some sympathize with the business reality of VC constraints limiting runway for alternatives.

Positive notes: Deno influenced Node to improve, the permission/security model was innovative, and early Deno's simplicity (direct imports from registries without package.json) was genuinely appealing. One user valued Deno's permission system for sandboxing agent execution. A commenter interested in self-hosted infrastructure appreciated celld's approach using S3-compatible storage for durability and coordination.

The broader pattern frustrates many: "Choose boring technology" keeps proving correct. Bun had similar issues. Commenters split between relief at Node's stability versus regret that innovation dies at the altar of incumbent network effects. Some question why Cloudflare bought the runtime rather than just the team, though others see celld's simpler model as superior to maintaining a separate runtime. A few switched to Rust/Go or left JavaScript entirely over this.1e:T6a4,The site presents a fully-rendered 3D simulation of Elizabeth Holmes' desk and connected devices from the Theranos era. Users can interact with a MacBook, iPhone, and iPad, opening working applications, reading messages and reminders with hilariously vapid content (lots of "love, LOVE, LOVE" copy), and discovering Easter eggs like API keys buried in Notes and a Sparklehorse track. The whole thing is slick enough that commenters noted simulated apps sometimes load faster in the browser than on their actual hardware.

The comments reveal this is marketing for Extend, a startup focused on document infrastructure for AI agents. HN users were largely charmed by the execution despite recognizing the advertising angle. Several compared it favorably to interactive ads from the Adobe Flash era, praising it as "the most tasteful ad I've seen in a hot minute" and calling it refreshingly creative compared to typical startup marketing. The immersive 3D desktop mechanics impressed users—one suggested it could evolve into a networked multi-user experience like Second Life reconstructed from real life scans.

However, meaningful criticism emerged: one commenter found a Twitter/X anachronism (the iPhone notes say "msg me on X," but it was called Twitter in that era), another noted the site doesn't actually work on Safari iOS, and one observer pointed out the uncomfortable irony of nostalgia-marketing around fraud. A few users dug into the hidden details—the reminders and iPhone health data (empty) were flagged as "hilarious" and well-thought-out. One commenter drew a parallel to jmail.world, suggesting this is part of a broader trend of elaborate desktop simulators used for marketing.1f:T7fa,OpenAI told investors it reached approximately $50B in annualized revenue by late September, CNBC confirmed, significantly lower than the $68B figure widely reported in late September. OpenAI also highlighted 77% total run rate growth in Q3 and 107% enterprise business growth. The discrepancy stemmed from attempts by OpenAI's investors to create direct comparisons with rival Anthropic by including gross revenue from partners like AWS and Google Cloud, which Anthropic includes in its own reported metrics but OpenAI does not. This "gross up" methodology led to the inflated $68B estimate circulating to media and markets.

The market reacted sharply: Nvidia fell 3%, Oracle 6%, CoreWeave 8%, AMD 4%, Broadcom 4%, Intel 5%, Super Micro 5%. OpenAI is preparing for a 2027 IPO with $852B valuation and has filed confidentially with regulators. Anthropic, its chief rival, reported $65B annualized revenue and is seeking $2 trillion valuation ahead of its own IPO. Anthropic's actual 2025 revenue was $4.6B against a $42B net loss.

HN commentary reflected sharp disagreement. Some commenters argued this was a non-story and investor accounting error, not OpenAI's misstatement—media outlets simply failed to adjust for the different calculation methodologies before reporting. Others viewed it as deliberate obfuscation to justify astronomical valuations while preparing fundraising rounds. A few noted the smaller July figure (~$2.5B for that month alone) as particularly troubling, suggesting deceleration. Multiple comments invoked Ed Zitron's earlier critical coverage as prescient. Broader concerns emerged about a $1 trillion+ company with minimal financial transparency operating outside public market scrutiny, especially given ongoing AI safety debates and OpenAI's recent decision to shelve GPT-6.1 Astra for safety reasons. Several commenters drew parallels to dotcom-era hype and expressed skepticism about annualized revenue metrics for rapidly growing startups, though acknowledged their necessity for fast-scaling companies.20:T86d,The author, a data visualization expert, tasked Claude Opus 5.5 with creating an interactive Three.js visualization of all 55 imaginary cities from Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities. Given six hours to work and explicit permission to iterate, Opus 5.5 completed the task in 1 hour 25 minutes using six parallel subagents (totaling ~7 agent-hours), costing $74. The result features animated 3D miniature cities with surprisingly intricate details: drawbridges that operate, walking figures, glowing lines, smoke effects, ferris wheels, roller coasters, and contextual animations tied to each city's description. For comparison, GPT-6 Astra produced a working visualization in 53 minutes for $10, but with more visual clutter and "AI slop."

The comment section reveals deep ambivalence about the project. A graphics engineer with 30 years of experience praised the hidden complexity—zooming reveals constant micro-details that justify the technical achievement. However, many readers expressed unease that this diminishes both the book's value and the creator's effort. Several warned that visualizing Calvino's poetic cities before reading the book would rob readers of the imaginative experience—the book's core strength. Critics noted that the AI-generated cities are often visually inconsistent with their descriptions (e.g., "five bridges" when text emphasizes connectivity) and that reducing ambiguous literary poetry to concrete 3D models "does no justice whatsoever" to the source material's themes of semiotics and language's limits. One commenter quipped that AI making such projects "nice-typescript-and-all" in minutes undermines the fulfillment of weekend creative work. Others questioned whether this constitutes copying or derivative work given the training data involved. A few defenders countered that artistic technique criticism shouldn't dismiss the result, and noted that the visualization enables new forms of learning for different cognitive styles (e.g., audio learners). Performance issues were noted—5fps on some browsers, 100% CPU usage, no GPU acceleration—suggesting the code prioritizes visual richness over optimization.21:Te72,Scott Aaronson recounts October 6 2026, when OpenAI released 372 mathematical results solving decades-old conjectures across theoretical computer science, quantum complexity, number theory, and analysis. His wife Dana Moshkovitz, a complexity theorist who spent her career on the Unique Games Conjecture, experienced it being solved by an AI. The proof has a Lean formal certificate, but Aaronson and Moshkovitz describe the paper as incomprehensibly written—"like someone on psychedelics," full of irrelevant citations, and requiring AI to parse. The UGC proof invents a novel "alien" recursive code construction unlike known approaches.

The 372 breakthroughs include L=BPL (derandomization), integer multiplication faster than O(n log n), positive resolution of the Unitary Synthesis Problem, parity not in QAC0, matrix multiplication in O(n^9/4) time, area law for 2D gapped Hamiltonians, partial progress on Riemann hypothesis and other Millennium Problems, plus uncomputability of solving polynomial equations over rationals. Each result could independently be "result of the year" in its field. The model was not a specialized system but OpenAI's latest internal model (~GPT-6 level), using ~3 hours compute per successful proof, tested on ~8000 problems (5% success rate). It was released undigested to the public, contrasting with Anthropic's approach of compensating human mathematicians (Virginia Williams, Josh Alman) to write digestible versions of AI breakthroughs.

**Notable Comment Threads:**

Critics raised several concerns. The Navier-Stokes result prompted a meta-analysis (linked arXiv 2610.08144) questioning whether Lean formalization provides real confidence, since translating natural language proofs to formal code can introduce errors at arbitrarily high levels of computational complexity. Commenters noted that "Lean code checks out" does not guarantee the natural language proof is valid. Others worried the proofs are "impenetrable hallucinations" masquerading as solutions. One Cambridge PhD student in algebraic geometry (Tristan) argued that if an LLM can solve these problems, they must not require genuine mathematical creativity—just pattern interpolation—and suggested AI will only expose the distinction between "actual" creative mathematics and rearrangement of familiar patterns.

Pragmatic concerns emerged: the work of verifying AI proofs is thankless, barely-credited, and unfun—a new form of tedious cognitive labor. A commenter compared it to reading messy AI-generated code in industry. Others noted that mathematics is now becoming more like an empirical science, with AI as a telescope into the Platonic realm, and questioned what problems humans should tackle next or whether PhD skills are now obsolete.

Defenders countered that math will adapt: problems still require formulation, novel questions still need human creativity, and understanding new solutions advances knowledge. One commenter argued this finally fulfills Hilbert's program ("we must know") and allows humans to focus on discovering new structures rather than searching combinatorial spaces. Another noted that the cryptography field's conspicuous absence from the list suggests some problems remain genuinely hard.

Aaronson's wife Dana offered measured optimism: the results represent paradigm shifts but don't finish mathematics; communities and existing frameworks were essential prerequisites for the AI's breakthroughs. The post concludes with Aaronson choosing to watch Terminator 2 with his children instead of parsing alien proofs, noting the humanity in acknowledging disruption while trusting the mathematical community's capacity to adapt and extract meaning.22:T735,Meta and Microsoft have reduced Claude usage among employees, pivoting toward proprietary alternatives. Microsoft slashed monthly AI spending limits from $100,000 per employee to roughly $10,000 across cloud and AI teams—though these are ceilings, not actual spend. The company anticipated $1 billion annual Claude expenditure but reduced that by over a third following management directives to adopt GitHub Copilot and OpenAI tools instead. At Meta, Claude Code users dropped from 60,000 to 30,000, attributed to migration toward internal solutions MetaCode and Muse Code, though layoffs contributed. Notably, Meta still spent over $105 million on Claude Code in a 28-day window despite user decline. Anthropic maintains other clients and reports annualized revenue pace of $65 billion.

The comment section quickly clarifies context often missing from the headline. Multiple insiders confirm this reflects standard corporate practice: AI labs dogfood their own models for product development and data governance, not necessarily quality judgments. One Microsoft employee notes limits are more about curbing outlier spending; usage patterns vary by organizational unit, with most engineers still accessing Anthropic models through internal harnesses rather than direct interfaces. Meta commenters emphasize they've migrated interfaces and tooling rather than abandoning the models—actual Anthropic model consumption may be unchanged. A critical observation: the story relies entirely on paywalled Information reporting, making verification difficult. Some commenters question the narrative itself, noting Meta explicitly took no company-wide steps to restrict Claude. The broader sentiment: cost optimization is real, but "good enough" AI has arrived—engineers optimize based on pricing and fit rather than pursuing the absolute frontier.23:T78e,The site "I'm in a Meeting" provides audio simulations of various office meeting types—standup calls, API design reviews, etc. in different accents/regions—to give cover for focus time or avoiding interruptions. The page itself is unavailable, but the concept is evident from context.

Commenters describe real utility. One SRE manager described creating a protected Friday block for his team; people report actually using similar fake-meeting videos on YouTube (millions of views) to get family to leave them alone or to claim they're busy. The dialogues are written to sound authentically corporate and slightly absurd ("happy is a strong word").

Technical issues: many users report broken audio (404 errors on media files), particularly non-British variants. Some audio works only partially. This appears to be load issues from HN traffic.

Notable disagreement exists on utility. Some find it genuinely relaxing background noise (described as "big corp ASMR"), while others say human voices are too cognitively intrusive when you can pick out individual words. One commenter found an API Design Review so stressful he couldn't concentrate nearby.

Deeper critique: several commenters flag that needing fake meetings to get focus time indicates workplace dysfunction. One asked bluntly: "if you can't tell people you want to concentrate on your work, there's something very wrong with where you work or you." Others noted the site is already appearing on corporate blocklists, suggesting IT security flagged it.

A few compared it to "boss key" games from DOS era, or noted it parallels HackerTyper as novelty-software. One commenter questioned why audio-only would be realistic (people on calls usually use video), and another wanted more overlapping voices for authenticity. The creator acknowledged disabling AdSense for better UX but noted ads are "sneaking in" to meetings, which drew skepticism about covert advertising.24:Ta50,The paper synthesizes evidence that circadian rhythm disruption represents a clinically significant phenotype in a substantial portion of ADHD patients. Key findings: 73-78% have delayed sleep/wake cycles, dim-light melatonin onset (DLMO) delays of ~45 min in children and 90 min in adults, blunted/delayed cortisol rhythms, reduced pineal gland volume, and attenuated clock-gene expression (BMAL1/PER2). Insomnia affects up to 80% of adults and 82% of children with ADHD. Intervention trials show melatonin (0.5-6 mg) advances DLMO by 44-88 minutes; bright light therapy advances DLMO by 31 minutes and shows strongest symptom improvement when circadian preference shifts occur; behavioral sleep programs significantly improve ADHD symptoms, sleep quality, and functioning. The authors propose a clinical pathway: routine circadian screening, phenotypic characterization via chronotype and sleep tracking, behavioral interventions (fixed wake times, morning light, evening light restriction), and selective low-dose melatonin. They emphasize this is not redefining ADHD as a circadian disorder but recognizing a prevalent phenotype amenable to chronotherapy.

Comment consensus is nuanced. A chronobiologist with ADHD notes strong associations exist but causality is bidirectional—circadian disruption could result from ADHD's behavioral effects on light exposure rather than cause ADHD. True circadian disorders involve clock gene mutations; ADHD lacks these. However, the expert acknowledges linkage warrants investigation and practical interventions (nature walks, morning sun) do help. Several commenters report personal success with light therapy and strict sleep schedules, though some note interventions failed to help them. A critical concern emerges repeatedly: causality direction is unclear—sleep problems may be one of many ADHD symptoms rather than an underlying cause. Critics also flag that while circadian interventions improve sleep and some symptoms, the paper lacks strong evidence that circadian therapy cures ADHD itself. One comment notes Frontiers is low-quality (retraction watch cited for high retraction rates). Seasonal patterns are real but may simply reflect seasonal affective disorder overlapping with ADHD. ADHD medications themselves alter circadian rhythms, complicating study design. Some commenters report atypical chronotypes (extreme early risers with ADHD) contradicting the evening-chronotype thesis. The title's claim of ADHD "as" a circadian disorder is criticized as imprecise language with problematic societal implications; sleep disturbance is correlated with but not definitional to ADHD.25:T9be,OpenAI announced updates to its mathematical proof repository: 6 new Lean formalizations, 19 modifications, and 3 withdrawals of published papers on algebraicity of Weil classes on split abelian eightfolds, algebraicity of Kuga–Satake correspondences for K3 surfaces, and the rational Hodge conjecture for products of K3 surfaces. The repo now has approximately 42% of top-line results formally verified in Lean.

The Hacker News community expressed significant concerns about the quality control process. Multiple commenters questioned why OpenAI mixed proofs with Lean formal verification (which is machine-checkable) with natural language proofs requiring human verification, and why questionable results weren't caught before public release. One commenter framed it as "proofs shipping like software," drawing parallels to software release cycles with patches and rollbacks.

Key tensions emerged: several experts noted that Lean-verified proofs can still be mathematically unsound if they formalize the wrong statement. A commenter with physics background found the integer multiplication result suspiciously good to be true. Others expressed skepticism that only 3 errors were caught among hundreds of AI-generated proofs—suggesting more flawed results likely remain undiscovered. The concern about volume was central: at ~400 proofs, manual human verification is infeasible, making errors probabilistically inevitable.

Critics highlighted perverse incentives: OpenAI publishes for headlines but leaves the mathematical community to verify and correct mistakes. One commenter stressed that without a "thriving mathematical community to point out these things," errors would remain undetected indefinitely, and that this process risks damaging the mathematical community through forced labor of verification. Others noted the irony that only OpenAI's own proofs have been retracted so far, despite the company positioning itself as trustworthy.

There was debate about whether the withdrawals represent adequate stewardship or mere damage control. Some defended the approach as better than suppression, noting even a 3-in-400 error rate is reasonable for cutting-edge work. Others argued that funding mathematicians to work alongside AI systems, rather than dumping thousands of unvetted proofs, would be the credible path forward. The prevailing sentiment was skepticism: without traditional peer review and journal publication, these remain untrustworthy despite Lean certification.26:T86a,OpenAI's math repository (dated October 7, 2026) documented withdrawals of three papers: "Algebraicity of Weil classes on split abelian eightfolds" contained a sign error that invalidated a key stabilization-trace cancellation argument, triggering withdrawal of that paper plus two dependent works on Kuga-Satake correspondences and products of K3 surfaces. Simultaneously, 14 other manuscripts received substantial revisions—repairs to crossing, boundary-attachment, and convergence arguments in four Lipschitz heights papers; expanded positivity arguments in six Kähler minimal model papers; corrections to cone-equality claims; and citation fixes. Six new formalizations were added, bringing verified results to roughly 42% of 719 papers.

The comment section revealed divided sentiment. Some defended the outcome as normal peer review working correctly, noting a 3-in-400 error rate is reasonable. Others expressed deeper skepticism: commenters questioned why unverified papers were mixed with formally-verified Lean proofs, suggesting a two-track release (verified vs. needs-review) would have been better. A recurring theme was concern about trustworthiness at scale—one commenter invoked the maxim "where you see one cockroach, there's probably more," warning the discovery of errors should undermine confidence in the entire corpus until academic publication. Several noted the volume is too large for manual verification and AI-written proofs are harder to read than human work. Concerns ranged from philosophical (automated math communities losing human expert oversight, per Terence Tao) to practical (every field will face massive retractions when AI audits published work). Some praised OpenAI's stewardship in correcting errors transparently, while others argued the math community should have been compensated for verification labor. One commenter flagged potential problems in the integer multiplication paper as suspiciously elegant. A few defended open/real-time collaboration over secretive vetting, and one noted the papers lived in a "preprint" directory, making expectations around verification status ambiguous from the start.27:Td27,The article chronicles DVD menu design from format standardization through creative peak in the 2000s to modern decline. Technical foundation: NTSC used 720×480 (from D-1 standard via BT.601), PAL 720×576, with metadata stretching to proper aspect ratios. Designers balanced 4:3 safe areas with 16:9 supplementary content, a carryover from broadcast TV's transition era. DVDs used MPEG-2 video plus 2-bit subpictures (4 colors from 16-color palette) for interactive elements, severely limiting visual complexity. The DVD Virtual Machine offered only 16 general-purpose and 24 system registers—minimal compute, yet creators achieved impressive interactivity.

Notable examples highlighted: Scooby-Doo 2's full 3D animations with embedded puzzle-adventure games playable via remote; Harry Potter's Knight Bus interface and Daily Prophet scene-selection; Shrek 2's character-filled Brady Bunch homage plus Far Far Away Idol minigame; Rocky Horror's disembodied legs kicking menu items; Wayne's World's fake cable-TV channel guide; Thunderbirds flying through menus; Doctor Who's Tardis console interfaces with hidden secrets. Disney's FastPlay (auto-playing with Tinkerbell intro, often skipping to trailers) and EasyFind templates exemplified publisher consistency.

The article laments modern physical media: DVD/Blu-ray creators now use generic templates; streaming's standardized interfaces replaced theatrical presentation. Despite Blu-ray supporting BD-J (Java) with vastly more capability, authorships remain bland—studios reuse templates rather than create bespoke menus.

Comments layer significant nuance: gwbas1c argues viewers simply prefer fast content access (like VHS simplicity or Netflix speed) over special features; modern special features devolved from promotional content to tedious cast interviews. alt227 recalls Memento's backwards-playback secret menu as prescient lost opportunity. kalleboo describes making elaborate DVD menus for a home zombie film using pirated DVD Studio Pro, finding it creatively rewarding. SeaGully collects 250+ DVD menus (some >1GB), noting structural complexity in menu encoding within VOB files.

Multiple commenters acknowledge the nostalgia-utility tension: LluisGuselly mentions PTSD from slow DVD readers and finicky remotes; chungy prefers bland menus that don't slow movie access; asveikau actively hated menus and blocked-skip attempts. beloch cites Criterion Collections' Island of Lost Souls as exemplary—menus designed as atmosphere rather than obstacle, with animated graphics and soundtrack loops enhancing experience. ndiddy links Reddit context explaining Blu-ray's failure: expensive proprietary authoring software, Java under RAM constraints, incompatible player implementations, and testing burdens drove studios toward reusable templates. liampulles notes space constraints: elaborate menus competed for disc capacity with video bitrate.

Specific examples mentioned: Mulholland Drive's LA hillscape with synth; IT Crowd's leetspeak/base64 subtitles; Goodfellas' criminal-and-FBI-agent commentary; hidden Simpsons writers' commentary; first Harry Potter DVD's brick-clicking maze to Diagon Alley. Overall verdict: acknowledgment of artistry and creativity, tempered by recognition that convenience and bitrate efficiency trumped presentation in both user preference and economic incentives.28:Ta5d,Oxide Computer announced a $445M Series D, notably framed around achieving profitability. Unlike typical startups that raise to reach product/market fit, Oxide paid income tax in spring 2026 from ordinary operations selling computers. The unusual capital structure stems from hardware economics: they need massive cash upfront for component inventory and manufacturing before fulfilling customer orders, with demand significantly exceeding supply. Leadership notes this is the opposite of typical startup risk (needing cash long before revenue) but still requires capital to avoid constraining growth.

The round was led by Eclipse (long-time backer) with participation from existing investors USIT, Riot Ventures, Jane Street, Friends and Family Capital, and Counterpart. AMD joined as a strategic investor, building on their historical support for Oxide's platform enablement work and Oxide's early bet on AMD EPYC. Atreides Management, a new investor, joined after nearly two years of relationship building.

The Hacker News discussion revealed strong technical respect but highlighted market concerns. Commenters praised Oxide's communication style, podcast (On the Metal/Oxide and Friends), and engineering culture as exemplary. Praise focused on their principled approach, particularly around sovereign compute and independence from hyperscalers increasingly commodifying and degrading services. One commenter noted the case for decentralization: AWS/GCP/Azure have become unreliable and expensive, motivating alternatives.

However, significant gaps emerged. Multiple users flagged the lack of GPU/TPU server offerings as a "hard sell" given AI workload dominance. The missing pricing page frustrated potential customers. Questions arose about whether equity dilution after multiple rounds (Series B $100M in Jul 2025, Series C $200M in Feb 2026, now Series D) left founders with meaningful ownership. One commenter skeptically noted the pattern suggests another round soon.

A few challenged assumptions: one asked why anyone would buy their own computers when hyperscalers "just work," though this was countered by observations about hyperscaler quality decline and vendor lock-in. Another noted debt/trade finance might have been more capital-efficient than dilutive equity. The lack of GPU support generated the most substantive technical pushback—acknowledged as increasingly table stakes for infrastructure selling.

Overall, the technical community views Oxide as admirably principled with strong engineering fundamentals and leadership, but sees them as addressing a real but niche problem in an era of AI-driven infrastructure demands.29:T83a,Docker Agent is a declarative YAML-based framework for creating, running, and sharing AI agents. It ships as a Docker CLI plugin and lets users define multi-agent orchestrations without code. Features include built-in tools (think, todo, memory), pluggable RAG, support for MCP servers as tool sources, AI provider agnosticism (OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini, AWS Bedrock, Mistral, xAI), and ability to package agents as OCI container images for distribution.

The HN comment section reflects significant skepticism. Several users question the basic value proposition: one notes "no code required" feels odd when LLMs already generate mostly-correct code instantly; another compares it to JS framework proliferation circa 2015—"all the cool kids have one." Multiple commenters express confusion about Docker Agent's niche relative to Kagent, Kubernetes agent-sandbox, LangChain DeepAgents sandboxes, and Cloudflare Workers sandboxes. One developer admits trying hard to use it but found it the "brittlest harness out of any" tested.

Critical gaps emerged: security documentation is buried and poorly indexed; the linked README lacks sandboxing specifics despite that being Docker's natural competitive advantage. One user noted Docker now collects telemetry on inputs/outputs per terms. Questions arose about practical utility—does this replace already-sufficient tooling like uv for reproducible environments, or Modal/E2B/Cloudflare that combine Docker + isolation at network level? A researcher noted uv works cross-platform (Windows/Mac) whereas Docker is Linux-bound, making it inadequate for local GPU testing before cluster runs.

The prevailing verdict is cautious skepticism: the orchestration model itself (agent routing vs. agent-to-agent invocation) is debatable; foundation problems (agent coherency/drift over time, LLM variability in research) aren't solved by a harness; and the timing feels backward—releasing a framework before proven agents built on it feels "cart before the horse." Some see it as Docker's play to stay relevant amid AI commoditization rather than genuine innovation.2a:T8ec,Navi Pillay, born into a Tamil family under apartheid in South Africa, has spent her legal career advancing international criminal justice. She defended anti-apartheid activists including Nelson Mandela, served as a South African High Court judge, was a judge on the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (where she influenced landmark rulings on rape as a crime against humanity and incitement-via-propaganda as genocide), headed the UN Human Rights Office, and now sits on the International Court of Justice in the Myanmar genocide case. The Nobel Committee framed the award as defending the rule of law against rising authoritarianism and "might overtakes right" power politics.

The HN comment thread revealed significant controversy. Several commenters noted that Pillay chaired the UN Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory that concluded in September 2025 that Israel is committing genocide—a finding not mentioned in the prize announcement. This prompted FabHK to call it "surprisingly political and divisive." Others flagged that the Trump administration is actively campaigning to dismantle the ICC over similar findings about Gaza, making this award potentially provocative timing. One commenter drew a parallel to Aung San Suu Kyi, who won the 1991 Peace Prize but was later implicated in genocidal actions, suggesting the prize has a mixed track record with recipients facing accusations.

Critics in the comments attacked the choice as politically motivated and questioned her record: one alleged she was "complicit in China's genocide of Uyghurs" and held antisemitic views; another linked her early career defending Tamil activists to the Tamil Tigers' invention of suicide bombing. A meta-criticism emerged that the Peace Prize has become politicized ("more like Forbes") and that proximity to atrocities—necessary to be considered for such roles—creates inherent complicity risks. One commenter sarcastically noted this is a "clear FU to the Cheeto," referencing expected backlash from the incoming US administration. Several defenses appeared: one noted the Nobel Committee apparently resists inside pressure (she wasn't even a Polymarket prediction), and another argued judges facing sanctions for upholding law deserve recognition.2b:T86d,Jonathan hatched around 1832 in the Seychelles and was brought to Saint Helena in the 1880s by the British colonial governor, where he remains today. He's an extreme outlier even for Aldabra giant tortoises, which typically become centenarians. A recent Science Advances study sequenced his genome after researchers obtained cheek swabs in 2017—the process took years due to safety concerns, incomplete samples, COVID, and new regulations. The samples were eventually delivered from Saint Helena to Florida by the U.S. Space Force, sparking comments asking why military involvement was necessary.

The genome analysis revealed Jonathan carries "unique gene variants in most aging pathways" including DNA repair, telomere maintenance, autophagy, and insulin regulation. The surprising finding was his methylome—the set of methyl-based modifications affecting gene expression. His mitochondrial methylome showed unusually low entropy, appearing as pristine as a five-year-old tortoise's, representing 189 years of unmapped aging difference. Most of his genome showed age-appropriate entropy, suggesting mitochondrial maintenance may play a special role in extreme longevity. Researchers at Kallel Foundation aim to understand these mechanisms to extend human healthspan and lifespan.

HN comments split between curiosity about the biology and skepticism about life extension. Some questioned whether extending human lifespan is wise given resource constraints and population pressures. Multiple commenters emphasized the distinction between lifespan and healthspan, noting that longer lives mean little without health. One detailed podcast link discussed how GLP-1 drugs might extend longevity and the ethical implications of indefinite life. Others made light observations: jokes about turtle speeds, chess skills, and becoming a beach-dwelling kelp-eater. A few expressed discomfort with researchers studying the tortoise, arguing for leaving the creature alone. The Space Force delivery detail generated multiple incredulous comments. One commenter noted marine animals live even longer—five to six hundred years—than Jonathan's near-200-year span.2c:T7d3,The article itself was unavailable, but the timing—US sanctions on the ICC immediately after a former ICC judge received the Nobel Peace Prize—sparked heated discussion on HN.

Supporters of the ICC and critics of US policy frame this as stark evidence of American exceptionalism. Secretary of State Marco Rubio's statement that "President Trump will never allow the International Criminal Court to prosecute Americans" is cited as an explicit declaration that the US views itself above international law. One commenter notes that Article 70 of the Rome Statute criminalizes retaliation against court officials, potentially creating grounds for the ICC itself to prosecute US officials. The geopolitical hypocrisy is highlighted: the US supports ICC prosecutions of Russians on behalf of Ukraine, despite neither being Rome Statute signatories, yet opposes ICC investigations into American conduct.

Skeptics counter that the ICC itself is fundamentally compromised. They point out that 123 countries are signatories to the Rome Statute versus 72 that aren't—yet major human rights violators like Saudi Arabia, Syria, North Korea, Egypt, Iran, and most of Africa face no ICC prosecutions. The court is characterized as selectively targeting weaker nations while ignoring superpowers and allies. One commenter questions whether the ICC functions more as a jobs program for retired European judges than genuine justice.

Tech sovereignty concerns emerge: several comments warn that US sanctions targeting ICC officials sets a dangerous precedent for disabling services operated by American companies on geopolitical grounds. This is seen as accelerating calls for tech decoupling and development of non-US payment systems and open-source alternatives.

The comment section reveals deep skepticism about whether any genuinely neutral international justice mechanism can exist, with disagreement over whether the ICC represents a flawed but necessary institution or a tool of Western power projection.2d:Tc9e,bigarrow lets AI agents draw arrows, boxes and text on macOS screens via CLI commands like `bigarrow point --element "Allow" --app "System Settings" --text "Click here"`. The tool runs in a transparent window above all others, and crucially, clicks pass through to the underlying app while keyboard focus stays where it was. It requires no Screen Recording or Accessibility permissions for drawing itself (only some targeting methods need those). The tool is a single Swift binary with no daemon, telemetry or daemon; arrows automatically vanish after a configurable duration (default 8s) or when the originating process exits.

Use cases span permission dialogs (macOS requires human approval for certain actions), 2FA/CAPTCHA entry, teaching workflows, remote support over screen-share, and documentation. The README includes extensive real-world examples: guiding users through System Settings, pointing at specific Chrome tabs among many, highlighting buttons in Keynote. The tool supports customizable visuals: shapes (bend, straight, zigzag, spiral), styles (arrow, ring, box), sizes, colors, corners, borders, even a clickable close button. It integrates with Claude Code and Codex as a skill that teaches agents when and how to point.

The README is thorough—210+ tests verified geometry, window levels, focus behavior, multi-display and full-screen app handling, CPU cost (~1.4%), and accessibility compliance. The author even tested the skill with a fresh Claude agent given only the README and succeeded.

Comments revealed several fault lines. One commenter (hn8726) flagged security concerns: nothing technically prevents an agent from hiding a "Decline" button with a box, though the author argues an agent with shell access has worse capabilities already. Others questioned the premise: usrbinbash noted it's "a label for a label"; satyanash questioned why an on-screen arrow solves focus problems when dialogs should autofocus themselves. tilemarch made a philosophical point: pointing at a button doesn't help users understand what will happen, and removing that friction could harm informed consent.

Positive comments praised the elegance. tangotaylor loved the obsessive care ("spent an unreasonable amount of time on how it looks"); iandanforth compared it to telepresence robot laser pointers. arshxyz and lbreakjai saw strong use cases for remote family tech support—many felt this would genuinely help aging parents. Several commenters wanted versions for iPad or web apps. isoprophlex joked about "rainbow dripping arrows" and "angrily pointing arrows," hinting the tool inspired playful ideas. FinnLobsien liked it for documentation where static screenshots fail.

Skeptics questioned technical scope: TekMol asked why Swift needs Shell, Python and Objective-C; m-s-y suggested simply asking Claude to draw numbered arrows in screenshots without burning tokens on a dedicated skill. pimlottc found the arrows "wonky." One comment noted GitHub's mobile app mangles the README anyway.

The prevailing verdict: clever, well-engineered, and genuinely useful for tutorial/support workflows and agent debugging, but solves a narrow problem and may not be the right abstraction for permission/consent flows.2e:T879,Wood Mackenzie's latest LCOE analysis shows 4-hour battery storage is now economically competitive with open-cycle gas turbines across all 43 markets studied. Single-axis tracker solar leads in 43 of 48 regions. Regional highlights: Middle East/Africa solar at $37/MWh falling to $24 by 2035, with 4-hour storage at $120/MWh dropping 33% to $80/MWh. China benchmarks global battery costs 55% below Asia-Pacific average through manufacturing scale. Latin America shows storage LCOE dropping 42% by 2060 as mandates and regulatory frameworks mature. Europe faces 2% battery capex rise from lithium price rebound but expects 12% decline by 2031. North America sees tariff pressure on solar modules (5-6% annual increases through 2030, 14% jump in 2028) but tax credits support storage competitiveness.

Comments revealed significant skepticism about the analysis. Bratmon argued the model lacks rigor—assuming battery costs fall 33% while gas turbine costs rise without non-circular justification. Multiple commenters noted the critical limitation: 4-hour duration addresses only peaking demand, not multi-day weather events (winter dunkelflaute, cloudy weeks without wind), where combined-cycle gas turbines or alternative baseload remain economically necessary. Jl6 questioned 2060 forecasts given rapid technology change in the last decade; predicting only 16% wind cost reduction over 34 years seems overly conservative or arbitrary. Bell-cot clarified the article targets open-cycle turbines (fast, inefficient peakers), not combined-cycle alternatives needed for longer durations. NetMageSCW and amelius noted headline imprecision—should specify "peaker" or "4-hour battery storage." ErikCorry and shawndrost made technical points: nameplate capacity comparisons obscure "firm capacity" value; a MW of 4-hour battery provides only 10-50% the value of a MW of gas turbine running 100-1000 hours annually when storage depletes. Gcanyon found the results remarkable and vindicated prior solar-plus-batteries arguments. One commenter praised Pickerel's dense, well-organized writing as superior to raw tables, though full Wood Mackenzie reports cost $10k per region.2f:T947,Marcin Wichary's article is a detailed reference guide documenting keyboard inconsistencies between Windows and Mac platforms. It covers: key nomenclature differences (Backspace vs Delete, Return vs Enter), modifier layouts (Windows has Ctrl/Alt/Shift; Mac has Cmd/Option/Control/Shift giving more combinations), visual representations (Mac uses symbols like ⌘⇧ while Windows uses text like Shift+), character access methods (Mac's Option key for special characters vs Windows's AltGr and numeric code entry), text field shortcuts (Mac inherits Unix Control key conventions like ⌃A for line start), and navigation behavior (Mac's Tab skips buttons by default; PgUp/PgDn scroll without moving cursor on Mac but move cursor on Windows).

The HN discussion validates the comprehensiveness while revealing real-world friction: multiple commenters describe platform-switching as genuinely painful despite technical familiarity. One mentions teaching a non-technical user the difference between mouse pointer and text cursor. Several describe muscle-memory conflicts: Polish diacritics via AltGr on Windows vs Option on Mac cause switching friction, particularly for non-English layouts. One user spent months retraining after switching to Mac (Shift+Insert paste muscle memory).

Key disagreements emerge: one commenter disputes the article's keyboard remapping diagrams, claiming Command and Alt map directly when crossing platforms (standard behavior), contradicting the article's implication they require different scan codes. Another notes the article seems wrong about laptop Enter keys; they couldn't find a physical Enter key on the keyboard shown. Several correct technical claims: Linux and Windows do support arrow keys for start/end in some contexts; F5 refresh has worked on Windows longer than the article suggests; keyboard manufacturer variation means Fn+arrows doesn't uniformly produce Home/End.

Commenters also surface Mac design complaints: the UK ISO layout's top-left key is "botched," German keyboard coding symbols requires painful key combinations, and bracket placement differs from muscle memory. One power user praises Mac's Command key ergonomics (thumb reach vs Ctrl's hand fold). The article's claim that readline-style shortcuts are beloved only by "a small group" gets push-back from someone saying they're fantastic and should be universal.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-10-09 16:26 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-10-09 16:26 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":4}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://news.mit.edu/2026/margaret-hamilton-computing-pioneer-dies-1007","id":49998895,"rank":1,"title":"Margaret Hamilton has died","url":"https://news.mit.edu/2026/margaret-hamilton-computing-pioneer-dies-1007","domain":"news.mit.edu","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49998895","by":"muglug","score":2101,"commentCount":250,"time":1791407778000,"short":"Margaret Hamilton, the pioneering software engineer who led Apollo moon mission software development at MIT and coined the term \"software engineering,\" died September 30 at 90. She revolutionized the field by implementing defensive programming that saved Apollo 11, earned the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and later founded two software companies advocating error prevention and systems engineering.","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T01:02:25.141Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://anthropic.com/claude-haiku-5-5","id":49996437,"rank":2,"title":"Claude Haiku 5.5","url":"https://www.anthropic.com/claude-haiku-5-5","domain":"anthropic.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49996437","by":"sfkgtbor","score":1040,"commentCount":485,"time":1791396092000,"short":"Anthropic released Claude Haiku 5.5, a much cheaper and faster small model (75-90% price cut from Haiku 4.5, now $0.10/$0.50 input/output tokens for requests under 100k). It shows substantial capability gains across benchmarks—outperforming GPT-6 Luna on most published tests—while being the fastest model at standard speeds. Pricing matches Luna up to 100k tokens, then becomes pricier. Comments praise the value and speed for subagent/summation work, though some report issues with prompt leakage…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T01:02:29.811Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://dgt.is/blog/2026-10-07-deepseek-freek-out","id":50000488,"rank":3,"title":"Why isn't the industry freaking out about DeepSeek 4.1 Flash?","url":"https://www.dgt.is/blog/2026-10-07-deepseek-freek-out/","domain":"dgt.is","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50000488","by":"jonotime","score":955,"commentCount":873,"time":1791418488000,"short":"Author claims DeepSeek 4.1 Flash is frontier-quality but 100x cheaper, questioning why tech isn't panicking. At $0.003/token with aggressive KV cache optimization, he runs all-day dev sessions for $1-2 using a $10/mo plan. Comments reveal the core issue: people use heavily subsidized $100-200/mo subscriptions where frontier models are unlimited or near-unlimited, making per-token costs irrelevant. Other critics note Flash uses 10x more tokens for equivalent quality, that western models remain…","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:29.363Z","age":"40 hours ago"},{"key":"https://apnews.com/article/h1b-visa-program-vance-microsoft-e7b3a407f822702b269ee277d21343ea","id":50006832,"rank":4,"title":"Trump administration is suspending Microsoft from a green card program","url":"https://apnews.com/article/h1b-visa-program-vance-microsoft-e7b3a407f822702b269ee277d21343ea","domain":"apnews.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50006832","by":"alephnerd","score":908,"commentCount":1542,"time":1791472500000,"short":"Trump administration suspended Microsoft from a green card sponsorship program, citing the company's use of H1B visa workers as replacements for American workers. VP Vance claimed companies game the system with token job advertisements in obscure places to justify hiring foreign workers at lower wages. HN comments largely supported the action as addressing real abuses, though disagreed on whether selective enforcement of Microsoft while larger abusers like Amazon escape scrutiny, and whether…","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:27.844Z","age":"25 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cactuscompute.com/blog/whistle","id":50008427,"rank":5,"title":"Whistle: Speech to Text in 16.9 MB","url":"https://cactuscompute.com/blog/whistle","domain":"cactuscompute.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008427","by":"gmays","score":851,"commentCount":170,"time":1791478779000,"short":"Cactus released Whistle, a 16.9 MB speech-to-text model supporting seven languages that runs CPU-only, reaches first token in 11 ms, and integrates with their Needle LLM engine for voice-controlled tool calls. HN users praised accuracy and size, though streaming output and accent handling drew criticism; key challenges remain with non-English speakers and complex vocabularies.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:29.028Z","age":"23 hours ago"},{"key":"https://dexerto.com/entertainment/man-discovers-his-parents-coffee-machine-used-1tb-of-data-in-10-days-3416399","id":49995495,"rank":6,"title":"Man discovers his parents' coffee machine used 1TB of data in 10 days","url":"https://www.dexerto.com/entertainment/man-discovers-his-parents-coffee-machine-used-1tb-of-data-in-10-days-3416399/","domain":"dexerto.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49995495","by":"ck2","score":848,"commentCount":521,"time":1791392190000,"short":"A man discovered his parents' Keurig smart coffee maker used 1TB of local network traffic in 10 days. The device was scanning the home network extensively, likely gathering household data for advertisers. He confirmed most traffic stayed local rather than uploading externally, but it saturated their Wi-Fi AP. HN commenters noted UniFi dashboards miscalculate bandwidth, questioned why anyone needs a smart coffee maker, and debated whether this was malice or incompetence—with consensus that…","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:28.083Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://openai.com/index/gpt-6-for-everyone","id":49996425,"rank":7,"title":"GPT‑6 and Intelligent UI for everyone","url":"https://openai.com/index/gpt-6-for-everyone/","domain":"openai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49996425","by":"joshuawright11","score":751,"commentCount":456,"time":1791396058000,"short":"OpenAI released GPT-6 with \"Intelligent UI\"—responses that include interactive diagrams, calculators, and visual elements rather than text-only answers. The model interleaves thinking with output for faster responses and shows safety improvements but some regression on certain benchmarks. Comments divide: some love the visual explanations and flexible UIs; others worry it's bloated, worry about ads, prefer simplicity, or note Anthropic already does artifacts.","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T01:02:28.292Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"hn:50006366","id":50006366,"rank":8,"title":"Tell HN: I've been paying for a rural Tanzanian's education for 10 years","url":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50006366","domain":null,"isTextPost":true,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50006366","by":"lukehandcool","score":730,"commentCount":226,"time":1791470387000,"short":"A developer describes 10 years funding a rural Tanzanian student's education, which blossomed into a 501(c)(3) supporting five students and now enabling the original student's master's degree. Commenters praise the personal, direct-impact approach, raise accountability concerns, suggest operational improvements like free hosting and nonprofit fundraising structures, and share similar experiences with transformative giving.","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:40.674Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bigwords.page","id":49994443,"rank":9,"title":"Show HN: Bigwords.page – Turn any screen into a sign. The URL is the app","url":"https://bigwords.page/","domain":"bigwords.page","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49994443","by":"SpeakingOfBrad","score":706,"commentCount":163,"time":1791387861000,"short":"Bigwords.page is a no-install, no-backend tool that turns any browser-connected screen into a customizable sign or display by encoding the message in the URL fragment. The creator built it to configure a remote-managed tablet with a message, leveraging the fact that browsers never send URL fragments to servers. Features include auto-scaling text, slides, countdowns, QR codes, markdown, and animations, all configured via URL parameters. Comments praise its simplicity and elegance, draw…","long":"$1a","gem":true,"gemReason":"Single-page tool that immediately works in any browser to create beautiful full-screen…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T01:02:36.709Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://htmx.org/essays/yes-and","id":50003796,"rank":10,"title":"Yes, and","url":"https://htmx.org/essays/yes-and/","domain":"htmx.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50003796","by":"Michelangelo11","score":625,"commentCount":243,"time":1791452898000,"short":"Carson Gross (htmx creator, CS prof) argues pursuing programming remains viable despite AI advancement. Key thesis: juniors must write code themselves to develop deep understanding; AI should assist like a TA, not replace code generation. He warns against the \"Sorcerer's Apprentice trap\" of systems you don't understand. The essay differs from the Assembly→High Level Languages analogy, emphasizing that LLMs lack compiler determinism. Comments split between agreement on fundamentals' lasting…","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:41.512Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117395269325940185","id":50002008,"rank":11,"title":"“Math 2.0” will need to value mathematical progress more holistically","url":"https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117395269325940185","domain":"mathstodon.xyz","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50002008","by":"ent101","score":601,"commentCount":637,"time":1791436454000,"short":"Terence Tao (via Mastodon post unavailable) argues AI should transform mathematics by solving problems more holistically—through exposition, refining proofs, and deepening understanding—rather than just autonomously grinding out solutions. HN commenters largely agree but highlight tensions: without explanation and human insight, AI proofs become sterile achievements; the field needs \"Math 2.0\" valuing communication and broader impact over just hitting benchmarks, though some worry AI labs will…","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:34.320Z","age":"35 hours ago"},{"key":"https://deno.com/blog/cloudflare","id":50019911,"rank":12,"title":"Deno Is Joining Cloudflare","url":"https://deno.com/blog/cloudflare","domain":"deno.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50019911","by":"ilreb","score":571,"commentCount":310,"time":1791551028000,"short":"Ryan Dahl and the entire Deno team are joining Cloudflare. Deno runtime gets one year of bug fixes, then development ends; Deno Deploy shuts in six months. The team will focus on celld, a Cloudflare Workers-based distributed application framework integrating with Durable Objects. JSR package registry continues. HN consensus: another promising alternative runtime dies to corporate consolidation, with commenters noting Node's network effects proved too strong; some praise Deno's good ideas…","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:02.472Z","age":"3 hours ago"},{"key":"https://theranos.world","id":50009295,"rank":13,"title":"Theranos.world","url":"https://www.theranos.world/","domain":"theranos.world","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50009295","by":"kbyatnal","score":513,"commentCount":184,"time":1791481909000,"short":"Interactive browser-based desktop simulator recreating Elizabeth Holmes' MacOS/iOS setup circa Theranos' peak, with hidden apps and Easter eggs. Actual purpose is guerrilla marketing for \"Extend,\" a document infrastructure startup. HN consensus: brilliantly executed, surprisingly tasteful ad campaign that recalls Flash-era creativity, though some note the irony of celebrating fraud-era aesthetics and one commenter flagged a Twitter/X anachronism.","long":"$1e","gem":true,"gemReason":"Delightful interactive 3D desktop simulator with working apps, Easter eggs, and hidden…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:41.906Z","age":"23 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cnbc.com/2026/10/08/open-ai-revenue-nvidia-oracle-coreweave.html","id":50008187,"rank":14,"title":"OpenAI annualised revenues $20B less than previously signalled","url":"https://www.cnbc.com/2026/10/08/open-ai-revenue-nvidia-oracle-coreweave.html","domain":"cnbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008187","by":"mfiguiere","score":413,"commentCount":287,"time":1791477958000,"short":"OpenAI reported $50B annualized revenue to investors, down $18B from the widely-circulated $68B figure from late September. The discrepancy arose from the $68B including gross revenue from OpenAI's partners (used to compare with Anthropic's metrics), while OpenAI's actual number excludes partner revenue. The revelation tanked AI stocks: Nvidia -3%, Oracle -6%, CoreWeave -8%. HN comments split between those viewing it as investor accounting confusion versus deliberate misstatement to justify…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:38.201Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://quesma.com/blog/invisible-cities-one-shot","id":50004790,"rank":15,"title":"I gave Opus 5.5 one prompt and six hours to visualize Invisible Cities","url":"https://quesma.com/blog/invisible-cities-one-shot/","domain":"quesma.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50004790","by":"stared","score":396,"commentCount":195,"time":1791460820000,"short":"Author gave Claude Opus 5.5 a prompt to visualize all 55 cities from Calvino's Invisible Cities in Three.js, letting it run for six hours. Opus created an interactive 3D visualization with intricate animated details (drawbridges, walking figures, particle effects) in 1.5 hours for $74, vastly outperforming GPT-6 Astra ($10, 53 min). Comments split: some mesmerized by technical achievement and hidden details; others argue it betrays the book's literary essence and does the poetic descriptions…","long":"$20","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive 3D visualization of all 55 Invisible Cities with intricate animated details…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:37.787Z","age":"28 hours ago"},{"key":"https://scottaaronson.blog/?p=10169","id":49997718,"rank":16,"title":"The Mathocalypse","url":"https://scottaaronson.blog/?p=10169","domain":"scottaaronson.blog","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49997718","by":"6bitquant","score":393,"commentCount":406,"time":1791401620000,"short":"OpenAI released 372 mathematical proofs on Oct 6 2026, solving long-standing conjectures including the Unique Games Conjecture, L=BPL, Navier-Stokes blow-up, and ~370 others using ~3 hours compute per problem with 5% success rate on 8000 attempts. Proofs have Lean certificates but are unreadable, cryptic, and require AI to decipher. Comments debate whether this is genuine mathematics or hallucination risk, with concerns about proof validity, lack of human understanding, and the future of…","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:37.537Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://rswebsols.com/news/meta-and-microsoft-take-steps-to-reduce-employee-usage-of-claude-ai","id":49997161,"rank":17,"title":"Meta and Microsoft take steps to reduce employee usage of Claude AI","url":"https://www.rswebsols.com/news/meta-and-microsoft-take-steps-to-reduce-employee-usage-of-claude-ai/","domain":"rswebsols.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49997161","by":"speckx","score":373,"commentCount":382,"time":1791398980000,"short":"Meta and Microsoft are reducing internal Claude AI usage to prioritize proprietary tools, cutting Microsoft's per-employee monthly AI budget from $100k to $10k and shifting Meta's Claude Code users from 60k to 30k. Comments stress this reflects competitive dogfooding, not quality concerns, though some question the ROI and note the reporting relies on paywalled Information sources.","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T01:02:42.691Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://iminafleeting.com","id":50018088,"rank":18,"title":"I'm in a Meeting","url":"https://iminafleeting.com/","domain":"iminafleeting.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018088","by":"splintersio","score":367,"commentCount":140,"time":1791537708000,"short":"Website playing realistic fake conference call audio so people can pretend to be in meetings. Link currently broken for some users (audio 404 errors). Comments note the concept is genuinely useful—people use it to avoid interruptions or look busy—but some find individual voices too distracting, and some worry it's now on corporate blocklists.","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:01.041Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"key":"https://frontiersin.org/journals/psychiatry/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1697900/full","id":50011928,"rank":19,"title":"ADHD as a circadian rhythm disorder: evidence and implications for chronotherapy (2025)","url":"https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychiatry/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1697900/full","domain":"frontiersin.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50011928","by":"bookofjoe","score":367,"commentCount":240,"time":1791492136000,"short":"Frontiers in Psychiatry perspective argues circadian dysfunction is prevalent in substantial ADHD subset: 73-80% show delayed sleep, melatonin onset delayed 45-90 min, altered cortisol/clock genes (BMAL1/PER2). Interventions advancing circadian phase (melatonin, bright light, behavioral sleep programs) show symptom improvement, particularly in winter. Comments debate causality—expert chronobiologist notes associations exist but ADHD lacks clock mutations; critics question whether sleep issues…","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:36.325Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://twitter.com/danintheory/status/2108065033070789090","id":50002650,"rank":20,"title":"OpenAI withdraws three mathematical results","url":"https://twitter.com/danintheory/status/2108065033070789090","domain":"twitter.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50002650","by":"sashank_1509","score":364,"commentCount":600,"time":1791443140000,"short":"OpenAI withdrew three mathematical proof manuscripts (on Weil classes, Kuga–Satake correspondences, K3 surfaces) from its GitHub math repo while adding 6 new Lean formalizations, bringing it to 42% completion. Comments debate whether mixing verified and unverified proofs was wise, question if other flawed results remain hidden, criticize the \"throw at wall\" approach, and note the withdrawal itself suggests inadequate pre-publication vetting.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:48.733Z","age":"33 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/openai/math/blob/main/history.md","id":50003107,"rank":21,"title":"OpenAI Withdraws 3 Math Papers","url":"https://github.com/openai/math/blob/main/history.md","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50003107","by":"theemathas","score":341,"commentCount":3,"time":1791446917000,"short":"OpenAI withdrew 3 math papers due to a sign error in one foundational manuscript that invalidated two dependent proofs. The GitHub history shows 14 other papers were revised for various proof repairs and citation corrections, with 6 new formalizations added. HN consensus: peer review is working as intended, but the mass dump of AI-generated proofs raises concerns about reliability at scale and whether unverified submissions should have mixed with formally verified work.","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:32.298Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://vale.rocks/posts/dvd-menus","id":50005527,"rank":22,"title":"Beauty in DVD Menus","url":"https://vale.rocks/posts/dvd-menus","domain":"vale.rocks","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50005527","by":"speckx","score":326,"commentCount":173,"time":1791465721000,"short":"Essay explores the artistry of DVD menus from their 2000s peak: technical constraints (720×480 NTSC, 4-color subpictures, 16-bit registers), memorable examples (Shrek 2's Brady Bunch layout, Doctor Who's Tardis interface, games embedded in menus), and why they've vanished despite Blu-ray's superior capabilities. Comments note nostalgia vs. utility tradeoffs—many preferred VHS's instant playback or modern streaming's simplicity, while some cite slow DVD navigation frustrations. Experts explain…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:44.606Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://oxide.computer/blog/our-445m-series-d","id":50020014,"rank":23,"title":"Our $445M Series D","url":"https://oxide.computer/blog/our-445m-series-d","domain":"oxide.computer","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50020014","by":"ahlCVA","score":306,"commentCount":112,"time":1791551567000,"short":"Oxide Computer raised $445M Series D, unusual because they're already profitable—their ordinary business selling servers generates taxable income. Growth is demand-constrained; they need cash for inventory to fulfill backlog. Investors include Eclipse (lead), existing backers, AMD (strategic), and newcomer Atreides. Comments praise their execution and podcast but note lack of GPU support and missing pricing info as limitations.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:02.081Z","age":"3 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/docker/docker-agent","id":49996259,"rank":24,"title":"Docker Agent","url":"https://github.com/docker/docker-agent","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49996259","by":"saikatsg","score":301,"commentCount":143,"time":1791395318000,"short":"Docker Agent is an open-source CLI tool for building and orchestrating AI agents using YAML config, multi-agent teams, MCP tools, and any LLM provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini, etc.). Comments question its necessity versus existing solutions, point out security gaps in docs, note it's still brittle/immature, and express skepticism about yet another agent harness when foundations aren't solid enough.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:32.305Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/2026/press-release","id":50018420,"rank":25,"title":"Nobel Peace Prize for 2026 to Navanethem \"NAVI\" Pillay","url":"https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/2026/press-release/","domain":"nobelprize.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018420","by":"Anon84","score":283,"commentCount":149,"time":1791540731000,"short":"The Nobel Peace Prize 2026 goes to Navi Pillay, a South African judge and international law pioneer who has served on the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, the ICC, and currently the ICJ in the Myanmar genocide case. The Norwegian Nobel Committee cited her work prosecuting war crimes and crimes against humanity, but HN comments highlighted her controversial role chairing a UN commission that found Israel committing genocide in Palestine, creating political controversy amid rising…","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:01.012Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"key":"https://404media.co/oldest-living-land-animal-jonathan-the-tortoise","id":49998066,"rank":26,"title":"'Jonathan' is the oldest land animal on Earth","url":"https://www.404media.co/oldest-living-land-animal-jonathan-the-tortoise/","domain":"404media.co","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49998066","by":"gumby","score":276,"commentCount":162,"time":1791403297000,"short":"Jonathan, a 194-year-old Aldabra giant tortoise, is Earth's oldest living land animal. Scientists sequenced his genome and found unique variants in DNA repair, insulin regulation, mitochondrial function, and unusually pristine methylation patterns—particularly in mitochondrial processes that resemble a five-year-old's. Comments note the distinction between lifespan and healthspan, question whether extending human life is desirable, and wonder why the U.S. Space Force delivered the samples.","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:43.185Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reuters.com/world/us-imposes-sanctions-international-criminal-court-hours-after-former-judge-wins-2026-10-09","id":50021066,"rank":27,"title":"US imposes sanctions on ICC hours after former judge wins Nobel Peace Prize","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/us-imposes-sanctions-international-criminal-court-hours-after-former-judge-wins-2026-10-09/","domain":"reuters.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50021066","by":"poly2it","score":266,"commentCount":116,"time":1791556314000,"short":"US sanctions ICC hours after former judge wins Nobel Peace Prize. Article unavailable, but comments show deep divisions: supporters see vindication of international accountability and criticism of US exceptionalism; critics argue ICC is selectively applied to weak states while ignoring major powers like Saudi Arabia, Syria, and China, and lacks legitimacy without US/China membership.","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:08.204Z","age":"2 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/franzenzenhofer/big-arrow-on-the-screen","id":50018817,"rank":28,"title":"Let your AI agents paint big arrows, boxes and text on your screen","url":"https://github.com/franzenzenhofer/big-arrow-on-the-screen","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018817","by":"franze","score":254,"commentCount":103,"time":1791543828000,"short":"bigarrow is a macOS CLI tool and Claude Code/Codex skill that draws transparent overlays (arrows, boxes, text) on-screen to guide users when AI agents need human interaction. It handles permission prompts, 2FA, CAPTCHAs, and teaching workflows by pointing rather than clicking. Clicks pass through to underlying apps, never steals focus, no permissions needed for drawing. HN comments praised its elegance but debated whether it solves the right problem: pointing at buttons doesn't help users…","long":"$2d","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive tool with polished UX, real-world utility for agent-human workflows…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:15.630Z","age":"5 hours ago"},{"key":"https://solarpowerworldonline.com/2026/10/4-hour-battery-storage-is-cheaper-to-install-than-gas-turbines-all-across-globe","id":50007519,"rank":29,"title":"4-hour battery storage is cheaper to install than gas turbines all across globe","url":"https://www.solarpowerworldonline.com/2026/10/4-hour-battery-storage-is-cheaper-to-install-than-gas-turbines-all-across-globe/","domain":"solarpowerworldonline.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50007519","by":"01-_-","score":250,"commentCount":154,"time":1791475413000,"short":"Wood Mackenzie report finds 4-hour battery storage now cheaper than open-cycle gas turbines in all 43 modeled markets globally. Solar LCOE leads in 43 of 48 markets; storage costs forecast to fall 33% by 2035. HN skepticism focused on 2060 forecasts, duration gaps (4 hours insufficient for multi-day weather events), and whether models assume gas costs rise while battery costs fall without rigorous backing.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:35.245Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://unsung.aresluna.org/deeper-dive-keyboard-differences-between-windows-and-macs","id":50015515,"rank":30,"title":"Keyboard differences between Windows and Macs","url":"https://unsung.aresluna.org/deeper-dive-keyboard-differences-between-windows-and-macs/","domain":"unsung.aresluna.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50015515","by":"sohkamyung","score":247,"commentCount":197,"time":1791515285000,"short":"Comprehensive technical reference on keyboard differences between Windows and Mac: different key names (Backspace/Delete, Enter/Return), modifier key layouts (Ctrl vs Cmd), symbol vs. word legends, shortcut notation, function key access, character input methods (Option vs AltGr), text field conventions (Unix shortcuts on Mac), and navigation behavior (Tab, Page Up/Down, Home/End). HN comments confirm it's thorough but highlight pain points when switching platforms and note some technical…","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:12.255Z","age":"13 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-10-09T08-35Z/","children":["← ","2026-10-09 08:35 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-10-10T01-02Z/","children":["2026-10-10 01:02 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-10-09 16:26 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
