1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"QdaHvm6OKKcEzZKlMvX8a","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-10-10T01-02Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-10-10T01-02Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-10-10T01-02Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Ta13,The author—a developer using DeepSeek 4.1 Flash for a month across multiple projects—argues the model is indistinguishable from Opus when in use, yet costs orders of magnitude less. He attributes this to DeepSeek's 437x KV cache reduction versus their V1 model, enabling $1-2 all-day coding sessions under a $10/month OpenCode Go subscription. He contends the model is now "good enough" that chasing frontier models is irrational, particularly given environmental and economic costs. He also argues self-hosting isn't economical anymore due to API pricing, though predicts local deployments will improve soon.

The comment section dramatically complicates this narrative. Top-voted responses point out that subscribers to Claude ($20 or $100/month tiers) and ChatGPT experience unlimited or near-unlimited monthly token budgets far exceeding API costs—the real economic comparison isn't per-token pricing but fixed monthly spend. One user notes the $100 Claude subscription can be exhausted in a single 5-hour session if priced at API rates, making subscription economics broken for providers but irrelevant to users.

Critical disagreements emerge on quality. Several developers report Flash is better for execution/implementation tasks but worse for planning, orchestration, and design decisions—they use it as an agent executor beneath stronger models like GLM 5.3 or Opus 5.5. One developer reported "unacceptable quality loss" when using Flash as sole orchestrator. Another notes Flash uses 10x more tokens than GPT 6.1 Sol for equivalent output, negating the per-token savings. A user citing benchmarks claims Opus 5.5 is clearly superior and that open models lag by 6-12 months, not weeks.

Disagreements also surface on pricing sustainability. Comments suggest OpenAI and Anthropic are heavily subsidizing subscriptions—possibly unsustainably—and may eventually raise rates. One expert comments Meta is "freaking out" and undercutting aggressively with Muse 1.3. Some suggest Luna (another cheap model) is faster and cheaper than Flash, or that mimetic models are better positioned on the price-quality frontier.

A few developers confirm the author's experience enthusiastically, calling Flash a game-changer for their workflows and citing substantial cost savings. But the prevailing sentiment is that the absence of industry panic reflects: (1) existing subscription economics making API rates irrelevant, (2) Flash being adequate for narrow tasks but not frontier-capable, and (3) western labs remaining materially ahead with monthly cadence improvements.13:T8c1,Ryan Dahl announces Deno is joining Cloudflare. The entire Deno team will shift focus to celld, a distributed application framework built on Cloudflare Workers and Durable Objects. Concrete changes: Deno runtime receives bug fixes and security updates for one year, then development stops (open source continues if others maintain it). Deno Deploy operating for six months before shutdown, with migration support to Cloudflare Workers. JSR package registry continues at Cloudflare. Rusty_v8 integration with workerd continues. Dahl frames the move as natural progression from questioning how to build server software, through Deno and Deno Deploy, to celld's simplified distributed model with scaling built into the programming model rather than ad-hoc infrastructure.

HN comments reveal substantial disappointment. Commenters view this as an "acquihire" killing Deno. Multiple note this validates staying with Node.js: despite io.js, Bun, and Deno challenges, mainstream wins through network effects. One commenter observed this happening when Deno added npm compatibility—the original vision of building Node from first principles got diluted. Another bitterly notes Dahl pushed Deno hard for years only to abandon it within a year of joining Cloudflare. Some sympathize with the business reality of VC constraints limiting runway for alternatives.

Positive notes: Deno influenced Node to improve, the permission/security model was innovative, and early Deno's simplicity (direct imports from registries without package.json) was genuinely appealing. One user valued Deno's permission system for sandboxing agent execution. A commenter interested in self-hosted infrastructure appreciated celld's approach using S3-compatible storage for durability and coordination.

The broader pattern frustrates many: "Choose boring technology" keeps proving correct. Bun had similar issues. Commenters split between relief at Node's stability versus regret that innovation dies at the altar of incumbent network effects. Some question why Cloudflare bought the runtime rather than just the team, though others see celld's simpler model as superior to maintaining a separate runtime. A few switched to Rust/Go or left JavaScript entirely over this.14:T9be,The Trump administration suspended Microsoft's ability to sponsor green cards, reportedly due to H1B visa practices. VP Vance characterized the typical pattern as companies posting jobs in small-town newspapers knowing no one will respond, then claiming they couldn't find American workers and using this pretext to hire cheaper foreign workers on H1B visas.

Comments confirmed this dynamic is widespread and documented. One commenter described their company hiring fresh foreign graduates on F-1 visas, extending their OPT status for up to three years, then filing repeated H1B petitions, with fallback contingency plans involving L1 transfers from European offices. Required job postings were allegedly made in employee kitchens at ~$80K salaries despite offering significantly more to fresh US graduates elsewhere.

Data comparisons showed Microsoft and TCS file far more green card applications through PERM labor certifications compared to companies like Oracle and Tesla, suggesting some companies exploit the system far more heavily than others. Commenters noted Amazon is actually the largest H1B user but escaped this enforcement action, raising concerns about selective weaponization rather than principled enforcement.

The broader criticism centered on the H1B system's fundamental flaws: the visa lottery is arbitrary, the prevailing wage requirement is easily gamed, employment-based green cards are artificially scarce (only ~70K per year from 1.4M total), and tying sponsorship to a single employer creates coercive leverage over workers seeking permanent status. One commenter suggested visa slots should be auctioned instead to direct hiring to areas of genuine labor shortage.

However, substantial disagreement emerged over consequences. Some argued visa restrictions won't create American jobs but will accelerate offshore hiring, reducing the incentive to establish US operations. Others countered that accepting cheaper foreign labor systematically suppresses American tech wages. A few defended legal immigration as net-positive, noting the system affects relatively small numbers compared to overall immigration policy.

Several comments highlighted the performative nature of enforcement: that this suspension feels like a targeted weapon against Microsoft specifically rather than addressing systemic fraud across all abusers. The concern is that selective enforcement by political preference rather than consistent rule application makes the outcome feel arbitrary.15:T9c8,Whistle is a compact speech recognition model released by Cactus Compute that transcribes 30-second audio clips in English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, and Polish. The 16.9 MB model runs entirely on CPU with no external dependencies, loads into the same quantized C++ engine as their Needle 3 LLM, and outputs transcriptions, per-word timestamps, and speech embeddings.

The architecture shares encoder blocks with Needle (eight Simple Attention layers with Monarch Hadamard MLPs) and uses a gated cross-attention decoder to fuse audio context. The model supports five-beam decoding with keyword biasing via Aho-Corasick automata, variable depth selection (2-8 decoder layers), and language detection plus forced-language modes. On benchmarks against Whisper base (145.3 MB) and Moonshine tiny v2 (41.9 MB), Whistle wins on LibriSpeech test-clean/other, SPGISpeech, and Earnings-22 while running 5x faster to first token (11.1 ms vs 73.2 ms) and achieving 1,319 tokens/sec decode throughput.

The deployment story is strong: prebuilt binaries for 17 platforms including ARM, RISC-V, WASI, Android, iOS, and browser; single-command pip install with optional mic capture support; and unified API that combines Whistle + Needle for voice-controlled automation (e.g., turning off lights via spoken command).

Comment consensus praised the achievement but highlighted gaps. Strengths: accuracy with accented speech, integration with home automation (one user retrofitted an Echo Show), real-world accuracy improvements via template matching, cross-platform support including RISC-V builds, and integration with LLMs for voice control. Weaknesses: no streaming output until recording stops (noted as essential for live apps); limited to seven languages (leaving non-English markets underserved); occasional hallucinations like repeating "Thank you" for long stretches of audio; weaker performance than Qwen STT on some user tests, though Whistle can be fine-tuned; struggles with uncommon terminology without domain adaptation.

Expert context: users compared favorably to Parakeet, noted the STT accuracy plateau means marginal gains ahead, and several mentioned Qwen's leaderboard performance. One user with a Croatian father appreciated accessible STT but noted every mouth sound gets transcribed. The core disagreement was whether size/speed matter more than accuracy for practical applications—consensus: both matter, accuracy especially for non-English speakers and technical vocabularies.16:T78e,The site "I'm in a Meeting" provides audio simulations of various office meeting types—standup calls, API design reviews, etc. in different accents/regions—to give cover for focus time or avoiding interruptions. The page itself is unavailable, but the concept is evident from context.

Commenters describe real utility. One SRE manager described creating a protected Friday block for his team; people report actually using similar fake-meeting videos on YouTube (millions of views) to get family to leave them alone or to claim they're busy. The dialogues are written to sound authentically corporate and slightly absurd ("happy is a strong word").

Technical issues: many users report broken audio (404 errors on media files), particularly non-British variants. Some audio works only partially. This appears to be load issues from HN traffic.

Notable disagreement exists on utility. Some find it genuinely relaxing background noise (described as "big corp ASMR"), while others say human voices are too cognitively intrusive when you can pick out individual words. One commenter found an API Design Review so stressful he couldn't concentrate nearby.

Deeper critique: several commenters flag that needing fake meetings to get focus time indicates workplace dysfunction. One asked bluntly: "if you can't tell people you want to concentrate on your work, there's something very wrong with where you work or you." Others noted the site is already appearing on corporate blocklists, suggesting IT security flagged it.

A few compared it to "boss key" games from DOS era, or noted it parallels HackerTyper as novelty-software. One commenter questioned why audio-only would be realistic (people on calls usually use video), and another wanted more overlapping voices for authenticity. The creator acknowledged disabling AdSense for better UX but noted ads are "sneaking in" to meetings, which drew skepticism about covert advertising.17:T8b0,The author began paying for Anwarite's boarding school fees (~$200/year) during a 2014 summer in a Tanzanian village where no local school exists. A decade later, Anwarite graduated from university with a language degree and gained master's program acceptance—remarkable in a region where only 2% finish university. Her master's costs $1,161 total. The author formalized this into Tanzania Education Project, a 501(c)(3) supporting five students' school fees and healthcare with zero overhead (all money goes directly to students). The long-term goal is universal education and healthcare access in the village.

The HN discussion surfaces both enthusiasm and practical concerns. Commenters celebrate the tangible, personal impact and the "slow experiment" premise of measuring village transformation. Multiple respondents share similar stories—one funded three Indian girls through college, another gave $100/month to a Brazilian friend. Several note the power of direct relationships over anonymous giving.

Accountability emerges as the main tension. One commenter detailed suspicion of a sponsorship organization that wouldn't facilitate video calls with their sponsored child, leading them to redirect funds to Doctors Without Borders. The author's direct relationship with Anwarite mitigates this, but scaling to five students raises questions about oversight and potential misuse. The author doesn't directly address these concerns in visible comments.

Operational suggestions include: using free hosting (Netlify) to redirect the $5/month hosting fee to students, highlighting 501(c)(3) status to access corporate and government grants, leveraging PayPal's nonprofit payment structure. One commenter notes a typo on the website (author confirms via email correction). A Cato Institute book ("The Beautiful Tree") is referenced as relevant reading on educational approaches.

Some pushback appears: one commenter questions what a language studies degree brings to a resource-constrained region, and another (avazhi) skeptically asks why this is on Hacker News—though this receives no substantial engagement. Overall, the thread is overwhelmingly supportive, with multiple donors announcing $100+ contributions.18:T12c8,Carson Gross, a CS professor at Montana State and creator of htmx, directly addresses whether students should pursue programming given AI. His answer is structured around "yes, and..."—yes, programming fundamentals remain valuable, and yes, how we practice it is changing.

His core argument: programming involves two enduring skills: problem-solving with computers and controlling complexity. AI threatens juniors specifically by enabling code generation without understanding, risking the "Sorcerer's Apprentice trap" of building unmaintainable systems. He explicitly warns students to resist using AI as a code generator; instead write code yourself to develop the visceral, reading-level understanding necessary in an AI future. The claim is that writing ability underpins reading ability.

On the Assembly→High Level Languages analogy: Gross rejects it. Compilers are deterministic; LLMs are not. You can reason precisely about how source code changes affect compiled output. With LLMs, the only way to know if rephrasing a prompt changes behavior is to run it. This fundamental unpredictability creates qualitative differences that high-level languages didn't introduce.

He positions AI as a teaching tool: used properly, it eliminates accidental complexity (toolchain frustration, obscure APIs) without eliminating the learning opportunity. Seniors can leverage AI effectively because they already know good code; juniors must resist the temptation to "vibe code."

Future skills he emphasizes: communication (prompt writing and business clarity), domain knowledge beyond code, and architectural thinking (organizing large systems, controlling complexity). He notes that effective vibe coders today are already excellent developers, supporting his theory.

Job market advice centers on networking (family, friends, family-of-friends) over online applications, and observing that companies of all sizes have software problems.

Comments reveal genuine tension:

**Support for core argument:** Multiple experienced developers agree fundamentals persist. One notes effective vibe coders are already strong developers. A comment on skill separation suggests reading and writing may be distinct—one commenter struggled with reading comprehension despite strong writing, implying intentional practice in both may be necessary. Networking advice resonates as timeless.

**Serious pushback on optimism:** One commenter claims LLMs already outperform them at meticulous guided coding; they're now effective technical leads directing AI rather than writing. Another saw 30% speed increases at their company, expects fewer devs needed overall, and wouldn't encourage their kids into programming—they'd suggest entrepreneurship instead. A recruiter noticed this year's college hires answer even open-ended business logic questions worse than prior years, suggesting coding fluency may already be declining measurably.

**Nuanced disagreement on determinism:** A C++ programmer argues LLMs are already *like* Assembly→High Level—you never know final output until benchmarking, just as undefined behavior and compiler optimizations make C++ output unpredictable until tested. Compiler determinism isn't as clean as Gross suggests.

**Alternative framings:** One developer does 30% hand-writing but uses AI comparatively—drafts solutions, compares with AI versions, ensures consistency. Describes themselves as "middle ground." Others argue the job becomes translator between industry domains (construction, logistics, mining) and AI, not code mastery. A startup founder claims they build decent complexity programs without writing any code using careful prompting. One proposes future programming will be natural language, making specific languages irrelevant but CS theory (networking, crypto) essential.

**Implementation skepticism:** Two comments directly state: juniors won't write code because companies won't let them prioritize understanding over speed, and non-technical management won't recognize complexity explosion issues later. The job market remains genuinely bad for juniors today, making advice to "invest time in mastery" feel disconnected from present survival needs.

**Cynicism:** One commenter dismisses the article as cope for boomers/older millennials, notes job security deteriorating across degrees, and suggests trades are better bets in wartime economy. Another suggests physical sciences or philosophy offer better value propositions.

The comment section splits between those who've successfully adapted to AI-assisted development and those who see it as genuine disruption that makes programming a worse career bet than historically. Agreement exists that fundamentals matter—disagreement is whether companies will structure incentives to allow juniors to build them.19:T72e,The project is a fully-realized mockery of contemporary AAA game design philosophies wrapped around the simplest possible game mechanic. It presents Minesweeper with a bloated production: multiple publisher logos, corporate splash screens, dramatic musical scores, cryptic dialogue hinting at a Tokyo-Singapore plot, voice acting, and a lengthy credits sequence that viewers actually watch because the joke is so well-executed. The core gameplay remains untouched Minesweeper, but hitting mines causes no failure state—you proceed through the experience regardless, amplifying the critique of modern narrative-heavy games where player agency becomes illusory.

Comment section consensus treats this as genuine satire that lands perfectly on its target. The humor resonates because it accurately reflects real frustrations: games prioritizing "experience" over fun, mandatory tutorials despite obvious mechanics, cinematics disguised as gameplay, and the contrast between proclaimed urgency ("no time to waste") and forced delays. Multiple commenters noted the irony of skippable logos in a game that's itself criticizing such padding, and the fake narrative thread (what happened in Singapore?) became an inside joke itself—several people expressed genuine interest in a sequel revealing the story.

Technical observations: the voices may be AI-generated, some felt caption placement was distracting, and one commenter noted the comparison to recent unfailable game sequences (the Wolverine game's driving section was likely the reference). A few suggested additions in jest: DLC for rounded corners, checkpoints between mines, visual guides to targets. The project earned genuine appreciation as art commentary, with viewers staying through the entire experience despite—or because of—its meta-criticism of exactly that behavior.1a:Tbe5,The original Mastodon post by Terence Tao (unavailable) apparently advocates for a shift in how AI contributes to mathematics. Rather than AI labs autonomously solving famous open problems to generate publicity and benchmark achievements, Tao seems to argue that meaningful mathematical progress requires deeper engagement: exploring why solutions work, finding simpler proofs, understanding broader implications, and effectively communicating findings to the mathematical community.

The comments largely validate this concern while adding nuance. A core complaint: current AI-driven problem-solving resembles a venture capitalist playbook—solve the problem, announce victory, move on—rather than genuine mathematical scholarship. Several commenters note AI's strength lies in synthesizing existing knowledge across disparate fields, but it lacks the "step back and question fundamentals" thinking that drives paradigm shifts. One engineer notes LLMs rarely spontaneously suggest rethinking an entire approach from first principles, yet those insights define major scientific breakthroughs.

The "authorship" problem surfaces repeatedly. When AI autonomously produces a proof, the human prompter becomes merely a department chair figure—they don't understand the proof deeply enough to give talks, answer hard questions, or engage peers. This strips mathematics of its social and educational dimensions. Tao reportedly felt this acutely during talks about recent AI-derived results.

Commenters also raise the incentive problem. AI labs are pursuing flashy milestone announcements (proving Millennium Prize problems) because it demonstrates model capability to investors and boards. The mathematical community gets flooded with unvetted, unexplained proofs requiring enormous effort to verify and integrate. One voice notes it's become "a maniacal race with too much money" chasing exponential curves rather than genuine contribution.

Interestingly, some push back. A few suggest Ramanujan was similarly opaque—stating results without showing work—yet the mathematical community absorbed his contributions over time by doing the hard socializing work. Why not expect the same now? Others flag that future model generations might handle exposition and exploration automatically, rendering current concerns moot. One commenter points out that the real issue is incentive structures and hiring practices: as long as universities reward publication count over insight, AI will be exploited for volume rather than depth.

The meta-concern: mathematics is being reframed as pure problem-solving efficiency rather than as an art form requiring beauty, elegance, and human understanding. Quoting Hardy and Russell, some argue mathematics is sculpture-making; mass-producing incomprehensible proofs corrupts the discipline's core purpose.

There's also resignation: researchers face a credibility trap where a 3-5 year grant cycle becomes impossible to justify if AI might scoop your work. The incentive structure itself may need reimagining.1b:Ta5d,Oxide Computer announced a $445M Series D, notably framed around achieving profitability. Unlike typical startups that raise to reach product/market fit, Oxide paid income tax in spring 2026 from ordinary operations selling computers. The unusual capital structure stems from hardware economics: they need massive cash upfront for component inventory and manufacturing before fulfilling customer orders, with demand significantly exceeding supply. Leadership notes this is the opposite of typical startup risk (needing cash long before revenue) but still requires capital to avoid constraining growth.

The round was led by Eclipse (long-time backer) with participation from existing investors USIT, Riot Ventures, Jane Street, Friends and Family Capital, and Counterpart. AMD joined as a strategic investor, building on their historical support for Oxide's platform enablement work and Oxide's early bet on AMD EPYC. Atreides Management, a new investor, joined after nearly two years of relationship building.

The Hacker News discussion revealed strong technical respect but highlighted market concerns. Commenters praised Oxide's communication style, podcast (On the Metal/Oxide and Friends), and engineering culture as exemplary. Praise focused on their principled approach, particularly around sovereign compute and independence from hyperscalers increasingly commodifying and degrading services. One commenter noted the case for decentralization: AWS/GCP/Azure have become unreliable and expensive, motivating alternatives.

However, significant gaps emerged. Multiple users flagged the lack of GPU/TPU server offerings as a "hard sell" given AI workload dominance. The missing pricing page frustrated potential customers. Questions arose about whether equity dilution after multiple rounds (Series B $100M in Jul 2025, Series C $200M in Feb 2026, now Series D) left founders with meaningful ownership. One commenter skeptically noted the pattern suggests another round soon.

A few challenged assumptions: one asked why anyone would buy their own computers when hyperscalers "just work," though this was countered by observations about hyperscaler quality decline and vendor lock-in. Another noted debt/trade finance might have been more capital-efficient than dilutive equity. The lack of GPU support generated the most substantive technical pushback—acknowledged as increasingly table stakes for infrastructure selling.

Overall, the technical community views Oxide as admirably principled with strong engineering fundamentals and leadership, but sees them as addressing a real but niche problem in an era of AI-driven infrastructure demands.1c:T6a4,The site presents a fully-rendered 3D simulation of Elizabeth Holmes' desk and connected devices from the Theranos era. Users can interact with a MacBook, iPhone, and iPad, opening working applications, reading messages and reminders with hilariously vapid content (lots of "love, LOVE, LOVE" copy), and discovering Easter eggs like API keys buried in Notes and a Sparklehorse track. The whole thing is slick enough that commenters noted simulated apps sometimes load faster in the browser than on their actual hardware.

The comments reveal this is marketing for Extend, a startup focused on document infrastructure for AI agents. HN users were largely charmed by the execution despite recognizing the advertising angle. Several compared it favorably to interactive ads from the Adobe Flash era, praising it as "the most tasteful ad I've seen in a hot minute" and calling it refreshingly creative compared to typical startup marketing. The immersive 3D desktop mechanics impressed users—one suggested it could evolve into a networked multi-user experience like Second Life reconstructed from real life scans.

However, meaningful criticism emerged: one commenter found a Twitter/X anachronism (the iPhone notes say "msg me on X," but it was called Twitter in that era), another noted the site doesn't actually work on Safari iOS, and one observer pointed out the uncomfortable irony of nostalgia-marketing around fraud. A few users dug into the hidden details—the reminders and iPhone health data (empty) were flagged as "hilarious" and well-thought-out. One commenter drew a parallel to jmail.world, suggesting this is part of a broader trend of elaborate desktop simulators used for marketing.1d:T7d3,The article itself was unavailable, but the timing—US sanctions on the ICC immediately after a former ICC judge received the Nobel Peace Prize—sparked heated discussion on HN.

Supporters of the ICC and critics of US policy frame this as stark evidence of American exceptionalism. Secretary of State Marco Rubio's statement that "President Trump will never allow the International Criminal Court to prosecute Americans" is cited as an explicit declaration that the US views itself above international law. One commenter notes that Article 70 of the Rome Statute criminalizes retaliation against court officials, potentially creating grounds for the ICC itself to prosecute US officials. The geopolitical hypocrisy is highlighted: the US supports ICC prosecutions of Russians on behalf of Ukraine, despite neither being Rome Statute signatories, yet opposes ICC investigations into American conduct.

Skeptics counter that the ICC itself is fundamentally compromised. They point out that 123 countries are signatories to the Rome Statute versus 72 that aren't—yet major human rights violators like Saudi Arabia, Syria, North Korea, Egypt, Iran, and most of Africa face no ICC prosecutions. The court is characterized as selectively targeting weaker nations while ignoring superpowers and allies. One commenter questions whether the ICC functions more as a jobs program for retired European judges than genuine justice.

Tech sovereignty concerns emerge: several comments warn that US sanctions targeting ICC officials sets a dangerous precedent for disabling services operated by American companies on geopolitical grounds. This is seen as accelerating calls for tech decoupling and development of non-US payment systems and open-source alternatives.

The comment section reveals deep skepticism about whether any genuinely neutral international justice mechanism can exist, with disagreement over whether the ICC represents a flawed but necessary institution or a tool of Western power projection.1e:T8ec,Navi Pillay, born into a Tamil family under apartheid in South Africa, has spent her legal career advancing international criminal justice. She defended anti-apartheid activists including Nelson Mandela, served as a South African High Court judge, was a judge on the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (where she influenced landmark rulings on rape as a crime against humanity and incitement-via-propaganda as genocide), headed the UN Human Rights Office, and now sits on the International Court of Justice in the Myanmar genocide case. The Nobel Committee framed the award as defending the rule of law against rising authoritarianism and "might overtakes right" power politics.

The HN comment thread revealed significant controversy. Several commenters noted that Pillay chaired the UN Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory that concluded in September 2025 that Israel is committing genocide—a finding not mentioned in the prize announcement. This prompted FabHK to call it "surprisingly political and divisive." Others flagged that the Trump administration is actively campaigning to dismantle the ICC over similar findings about Gaza, making this award potentially provocative timing. One commenter drew a parallel to Aung San Suu Kyi, who won the 1991 Peace Prize but was later implicated in genocidal actions, suggesting the prize has a mixed track record with recipients facing accusations.

Critics in the comments attacked the choice as politically motivated and questioned her record: one alleged she was "complicit in China's genocide of Uyghurs" and held antisemitic views; another linked her early career defending Tamil activists to the Tamil Tigers' invention of suicide bombing. A meta-criticism emerged that the Peace Prize has become politicized ("more like Forbes") and that proximity to atrocities—necessary to be considered for such roles—creates inherent complicity risks. One commenter sarcastically noted this is a "clear FU to the Cheeto," referencing expected backlash from the incoming US administration. Several defenses appeared: one noted the Nobel Committee apparently resists inside pressure (she wasn't even a Polymarket prediction), and another argued judges facing sanctions for upholding law deserve recognition.1f:T7fa,OpenAI told investors it reached approximately $50B in annualized revenue by late September, CNBC confirmed, significantly lower than the $68B figure widely reported in late September. OpenAI also highlighted 77% total run rate growth in Q3 and 107% enterprise business growth. The discrepancy stemmed from attempts by OpenAI's investors to create direct comparisons with rival Anthropic by including gross revenue from partners like AWS and Google Cloud, which Anthropic includes in its own reported metrics but OpenAI does not. This "gross up" methodology led to the inflated $68B estimate circulating to media and markets.

The market reacted sharply: Nvidia fell 3%, Oracle 6%, CoreWeave 8%, AMD 4%, Broadcom 4%, Intel 5%, Super Micro 5%. OpenAI is preparing for a 2027 IPO with $852B valuation and has filed confidentially with regulators. Anthropic, its chief rival, reported $65B annualized revenue and is seeking $2 trillion valuation ahead of its own IPO. Anthropic's actual 2025 revenue was $4.6B against a $42B net loss.

HN commentary reflected sharp disagreement. Some commenters argued this was a non-story and investor accounting error, not OpenAI's misstatement—media outlets simply failed to adjust for the different calculation methodologies before reporting. Others viewed it as deliberate obfuscation to justify astronomical valuations while preparing fundraising rounds. A few noted the smaller July figure (~$2.5B for that month alone) as particularly troubling, suggesting deceleration. Multiple comments invoked Ed Zitron's earlier critical coverage as prescient. Broader concerns emerged about a $1 trillion+ company with minimal financial transparency operating outside public market scrutiny, especially given ongoing AI safety debates and OpenAI's recent decision to shelve GPT-6.1 Astra for safety reasons. Several commenters drew parallels to dotcom-era hype and expressed skepticism about annualized revenue metrics for rapidly growing startups, though acknowledged their necessity for fast-scaling companies.20:T86d,The author, a data visualization expert, tasked Claude Opus 5.5 with creating an interactive Three.js visualization of all 55 imaginary cities from Italo Calvino's Invisible Cities. Given six hours to work and explicit permission to iterate, Opus 5.5 completed the task in 1 hour 25 minutes using six parallel subagents (totaling ~7 agent-hours), costing $74. The result features animated 3D miniature cities with surprisingly intricate details: drawbridges that operate, walking figures, glowing lines, smoke effects, ferris wheels, roller coasters, and contextual animations tied to each city's description. For comparison, GPT-6 Astra produced a working visualization in 53 minutes for $10, but with more visual clutter and "AI slop."

The comment section reveals deep ambivalence about the project. A graphics engineer with 30 years of experience praised the hidden complexity—zooming reveals constant micro-details that justify the technical achievement. However, many readers expressed unease that this diminishes both the book's value and the creator's effort. Several warned that visualizing Calvino's poetic cities before reading the book would rob readers of the imaginative experience—the book's core strength. Critics noted that the AI-generated cities are often visually inconsistent with their descriptions (e.g., "five bridges" when text emphasizes connectivity) and that reducing ambiguous literary poetry to concrete 3D models "does no justice whatsoever" to the source material's themes of semiotics and language's limits. One commenter quipped that AI making such projects "nice-typescript-and-all" in minutes undermines the fulfillment of weekend creative work. Others questioned whether this constitutes copying or derivative work given the training data involved. A few defenders countered that artistic technique criticism shouldn't dismiss the result, and noted that the visualization enables new forms of learning for different cognitive styles (e.g., audio learners). Performance issues were noted—5fps on some browsers, 100% CPU usage, no GPU acceleration—suggesting the code prioritizes visual richness over optimization.21:T89d,Article content unavailable, but the story centers on a YouTuber in Peel, Ontario (Canada) who built an ALPR (automatic license plate reader) camera system to track police vehicles, mirroring the Flock system that law enforcement uses to track civilians. Police subsequently visited him, prompting questions about harassment and chilling effects on activism.

The comment section reveals deep ambivalence about the appropriateness of such projects. Several commenters highlighted the core tension: if mass surveillance like Flock is a problem, should the solution be banning it for everyone (including police), or allowing symmetric civilian surveillance of authorities for accountability and empathy-building?

Strong counterargument framing emerged around asymmetry by design. One commenter noted that civilians handcuffing people or carrying pistols to fight crime would be equally inappropriate, suggesting certain powers must remain asymmetric to prevent societal breakdown. Another highlighted the difference between a state agent conducting surveillance within (ostensibly) official channels versus private citizens operating outside legal frameworks.

Constructive criticism focused on legislation. Commenters referenced New Hampshire's ALPR law (3-minute deletion of non-hits, no off-device uploads without warrant) as a model, and called for broader constraints on data access and retention rather than escalating surveillance arms races. Multiple comments warned about the logical endpoint: an OpenALPRMap or similar crowdsourced database tracking everyone, defeating the privacy goal.

Some celebrated the activist angle. Supporters framed it as accountability theater—forcing officials to experience the surveillance they impose—and noted precedent in Canadian single-party consent recording laws used by CBC investigations. One commenter invoked the "nothing to hide" framing commonly used against civilians.

A recurring theme: the police visit itself, if occurring without charges or legal basis, was characterized as intimidation rather than legitimate law enforcement, with commenters emphasizing the right to refuse voluntary conversations with police without legal counsel present.22:Ta50,The paper synthesizes evidence that circadian rhythm disruption represents a clinically significant phenotype in a substantial portion of ADHD patients. Key findings: 73-78% have delayed sleep/wake cycles, dim-light melatonin onset (DLMO) delays of ~45 min in children and 90 min in adults, blunted/delayed cortisol rhythms, reduced pineal gland volume, and attenuated clock-gene expression (BMAL1/PER2). Insomnia affects up to 80% of adults and 82% of children with ADHD. Intervention trials show melatonin (0.5-6 mg) advances DLMO by 44-88 minutes; bright light therapy advances DLMO by 31 minutes and shows strongest symptom improvement when circadian preference shifts occur; behavioral sleep programs significantly improve ADHD symptoms, sleep quality, and functioning. The authors propose a clinical pathway: routine circadian screening, phenotypic characterization via chronotype and sleep tracking, behavioral interventions (fixed wake times, morning light, evening light restriction), and selective low-dose melatonin. They emphasize this is not redefining ADHD as a circadian disorder but recognizing a prevalent phenotype amenable to chronotherapy.

Comment consensus is nuanced. A chronobiologist with ADHD notes strong associations exist but causality is bidirectional—circadian disruption could result from ADHD's behavioral effects on light exposure rather than cause ADHD. True circadian disorders involve clock gene mutations; ADHD lacks these. However, the expert acknowledges linkage warrants investigation and practical interventions (nature walks, morning sun) do help. Several commenters report personal success with light therapy and strict sleep schedules, though some note interventions failed to help them. A critical concern emerges repeatedly: causality direction is unclear—sleep problems may be one of many ADHD symptoms rather than an underlying cause. Critics also flag that while circadian interventions improve sleep and some symptoms, the paper lacks strong evidence that circadian therapy cures ADHD itself. One comment notes Frontiers is low-quality (retraction watch cited for high retraction rates). Seasonal patterns are real but may simply reflect seasonal affective disorder overlapping with ADHD. ADHD medications themselves alter circadian rhythms, complicating study design. Some commenters report atypical chronotypes (extreme early risers with ADHD) contradicting the evening-chronotype thesis. The title's claim of ADHD "as" a circadian disorder is criticized as imprecise language with problematic societal implications; sleep disturbance is correlated with but not definitional to ADHD.23:Tc9e,bigarrow lets AI agents draw arrows, boxes and text on macOS screens via CLI commands like `bigarrow point --element "Allow" --app "System Settings" --text "Click here"`. The tool runs in a transparent window above all others, and crucially, clicks pass through to the underlying app while keyboard focus stays where it was. It requires no Screen Recording or Accessibility permissions for drawing itself (only some targeting methods need those). The tool is a single Swift binary with no daemon, telemetry or daemon; arrows automatically vanish after a configurable duration (default 8s) or when the originating process exits.

Use cases span permission dialogs (macOS requires human approval for certain actions), 2FA/CAPTCHA entry, teaching workflows, remote support over screen-share, and documentation. The README includes extensive real-world examples: guiding users through System Settings, pointing at specific Chrome tabs among many, highlighting buttons in Keynote. The tool supports customizable visuals: shapes (bend, straight, zigzag, spiral), styles (arrow, ring, box), sizes, colors, corners, borders, even a clickable close button. It integrates with Claude Code and Codex as a skill that teaches agents when and how to point.

The README is thorough—210+ tests verified geometry, window levels, focus behavior, multi-display and full-screen app handling, CPU cost (~1.4%), and accessibility compliance. The author even tested the skill with a fresh Claude agent given only the README and succeeded.

Comments revealed several fault lines. One commenter (hn8726) flagged security concerns: nothing technically prevents an agent from hiding a "Decline" button with a box, though the author argues an agent with shell access has worse capabilities already. Others questioned the premise: usrbinbash noted it's "a label for a label"; satyanash questioned why an on-screen arrow solves focus problems when dialogs should autofocus themselves. tilemarch made a philosophical point: pointing at a button doesn't help users understand what will happen, and removing that friction could harm informed consent.

Positive comments praised the elegance. tangotaylor loved the obsessive care ("spent an unreasonable amount of time on how it looks"); iandanforth compared it to telepresence robot laser pointers. arshxyz and lbreakjai saw strong use cases for remote family tech support—many felt this would genuinely help aging parents. Several commenters wanted versions for iPad or web apps. isoprophlex joked about "rainbow dripping arrows" and "angrily pointing arrows," hinting the tool inspired playful ideas. FinnLobsien liked it for documentation where static screenshots fail.

Skeptics questioned technical scope: TekMol asked why Swift needs Shell, Python and Objective-C; m-s-y suggested simply asking Claude to draw numbered arrows in screenshots without burning tokens on a dedicated skill. pimlottc found the arrows "wonky." One comment noted GitHub's mobile app mangles the README anyway.

The prevailing verdict: clever, well-engineered, and genuinely useful for tutorial/support workflows and agent debugging, but solves a narrow problem and may not be the right abstraction for permission/consent flows.24:T9be,OpenAI announced updates to its mathematical proof repository: 6 new Lean formalizations, 19 modifications, and 3 withdrawals of published papers on algebraicity of Weil classes on split abelian eightfolds, algebraicity of Kuga–Satake correspondences for K3 surfaces, and the rational Hodge conjecture for products of K3 surfaces. The repo now has approximately 42% of top-line results formally verified in Lean.

The Hacker News community expressed significant concerns about the quality control process. Multiple commenters questioned why OpenAI mixed proofs with Lean formal verification (which is machine-checkable) with natural language proofs requiring human verification, and why questionable results weren't caught before public release. One commenter framed it as "proofs shipping like software," drawing parallels to software release cycles with patches and rollbacks.

Key tensions emerged: several experts noted that Lean-verified proofs can still be mathematically unsound if they formalize the wrong statement. A commenter with physics background found the integer multiplication result suspiciously good to be true. Others expressed skepticism that only 3 errors were caught among hundreds of AI-generated proofs—suggesting more flawed results likely remain undiscovered. The concern about volume was central: at ~400 proofs, manual human verification is infeasible, making errors probabilistically inevitable.

Critics highlighted perverse incentives: OpenAI publishes for headlines but leaves the mathematical community to verify and correct mistakes. One commenter stressed that without a "thriving mathematical community to point out these things," errors would remain undetected indefinitely, and that this process risks damaging the mathematical community through forced labor of verification. Others noted the irony that only OpenAI's own proofs have been retracted so far, despite the company positioning itself as trustworthy.

There was debate about whether the withdrawals represent adequate stewardship or mere damage control. Some defended the approach as better than suppression, noting even a 3-in-400 error rate is reasonable for cutting-edge work. Others argued that funding mathematicians to work alongside AI systems, rather than dumping thousands of unvetted proofs, would be the credible path forward. The prevailing sentiment was skepticism: without traditional peer review and journal publication, these remain untrustworthy despite Lean certification.25:T86a,OpenAI's math repository (dated October 7, 2026) documented withdrawals of three papers: "Algebraicity of Weil classes on split abelian eightfolds" contained a sign error that invalidated a key stabilization-trace cancellation argument, triggering withdrawal of that paper plus two dependent works on Kuga-Satake correspondences and products of K3 surfaces. Simultaneously, 14 other manuscripts received substantial revisions—repairs to crossing, boundary-attachment, and convergence arguments in four Lipschitz heights papers; expanded positivity arguments in six Kähler minimal model papers; corrections to cone-equality claims; and citation fixes. Six new formalizations were added, bringing verified results to roughly 42% of 719 papers.

The comment section revealed divided sentiment. Some defended the outcome as normal peer review working correctly, noting a 3-in-400 error rate is reasonable. Others expressed deeper skepticism: commenters questioned why unverified papers were mixed with formally-verified Lean proofs, suggesting a two-track release (verified vs. needs-review) would have been better. A recurring theme was concern about trustworthiness at scale—one commenter invoked the maxim "where you see one cockroach, there's probably more," warning the discovery of errors should undermine confidence in the entire corpus until academic publication. Several noted the volume is too large for manual verification and AI-written proofs are harder to read than human work. Concerns ranged from philosophical (automated math communities losing human expert oversight, per Terence Tao) to practical (every field will face massive retractions when AI audits published work). Some praised OpenAI's stewardship in correcting errors transparently, while others argued the math community should have been compensated for verification labor. One commenter flagged potential problems in the integer multiplication paper as suspiciously elegant. A few defended open/real-time collaboration over secretive vetting, and one noted the papers lived in a "preprint" directory, making expectations around verification status ambiguous from the start.26:Td27,The article chronicles DVD menu design from format standardization through creative peak in the 2000s to modern decline. Technical foundation: NTSC used 720×480 (from D-1 standard via BT.601), PAL 720×576, with metadata stretching to proper aspect ratios. Designers balanced 4:3 safe areas with 16:9 supplementary content, a carryover from broadcast TV's transition era. DVDs used MPEG-2 video plus 2-bit subpictures (4 colors from 16-color palette) for interactive elements, severely limiting visual complexity. The DVD Virtual Machine offered only 16 general-purpose and 24 system registers—minimal compute, yet creators achieved impressive interactivity.

Notable examples highlighted: Scooby-Doo 2's full 3D animations with embedded puzzle-adventure games playable via remote; Harry Potter's Knight Bus interface and Daily Prophet scene-selection; Shrek 2's character-filled Brady Bunch homage plus Far Far Away Idol minigame; Rocky Horror's disembodied legs kicking menu items; Wayne's World's fake cable-TV channel guide; Thunderbirds flying through menus; Doctor Who's Tardis console interfaces with hidden secrets. Disney's FastPlay (auto-playing with Tinkerbell intro, often skipping to trailers) and EasyFind templates exemplified publisher consistency.

The article laments modern physical media: DVD/Blu-ray creators now use generic templates; streaming's standardized interfaces replaced theatrical presentation. Despite Blu-ray supporting BD-J (Java) with vastly more capability, authorships remain bland—studios reuse templates rather than create bespoke menus.

Comments layer significant nuance: gwbas1c argues viewers simply prefer fast content access (like VHS simplicity or Netflix speed) over special features; modern special features devolved from promotional content to tedious cast interviews. alt227 recalls Memento's backwards-playback secret menu as prescient lost opportunity. kalleboo describes making elaborate DVD menus for a home zombie film using pirated DVD Studio Pro, finding it creatively rewarding. SeaGully collects 250+ DVD menus (some >1GB), noting structural complexity in menu encoding within VOB files.

Multiple commenters acknowledge the nostalgia-utility tension: LluisGuselly mentions PTSD from slow DVD readers and finicky remotes; chungy prefers bland menus that don't slow movie access; asveikau actively hated menus and blocked-skip attempts. beloch cites Criterion Collections' Island of Lost Souls as exemplary—menus designed as atmosphere rather than obstacle, with animated graphics and soundtrack loops enhancing experience. ndiddy links Reddit context explaining Blu-ray's failure: expensive proprietary authoring software, Java under RAM constraints, incompatible player implementations, and testing burdens drove studios toward reusable templates. liampulles notes space constraints: elaborate menus competed for disc capacity with video bitrate.

Specific examples mentioned: Mulholland Drive's LA hillscape with synth; IT Crowd's leetspeak/base64 subtitles; Goodfellas' criminal-and-FBI-agent commentary; hidden Simpsons writers' commentary; first Harry Potter DVD's brick-clicking maze to Diagon Alley. Overall verdict: acknowledgment of artistry and creativity, tempered by recognition that convenience and bitrate efficiency trumped presentation in both user preference and economic incentives.27:T947,Marcin Wichary's article is a detailed reference guide documenting keyboard inconsistencies between Windows and Mac platforms. It covers: key nomenclature differences (Backspace vs Delete, Return vs Enter), modifier layouts (Windows has Ctrl/Alt/Shift; Mac has Cmd/Option/Control/Shift giving more combinations), visual representations (Mac uses symbols like ⌘⇧ while Windows uses text like Shift+), character access methods (Mac's Option key for special characters vs Windows's AltGr and numeric code entry), text field shortcuts (Mac inherits Unix Control key conventions like ⌃A for line start), and navigation behavior (Mac's Tab skips buttons by default; PgUp/PgDn scroll without moving cursor on Mac but move cursor on Windows).

The HN discussion validates the comprehensiveness while revealing real-world friction: multiple commenters describe platform-switching as genuinely painful despite technical familiarity. One mentions teaching a non-technical user the difference between mouse pointer and text cursor. Several describe muscle-memory conflicts: Polish diacritics via AltGr on Windows vs Option on Mac cause switching friction, particularly for non-English layouts. One user spent months retraining after switching to Mac (Shift+Insert paste muscle memory).

Key disagreements emerge: one commenter disputes the article's keyboard remapping diagrams, claiming Command and Alt map directly when crossing platforms (standard behavior), contradicting the article's implication they require different scan codes. Another notes the article seems wrong about laptop Enter keys; they couldn't find a physical Enter key on the keyboard shown. Several correct technical claims: Linux and Windows do support arrow keys for start/end in some contexts; F5 refresh has worked on Windows longer than the article suggests; keyboard manufacturer variation means Fn+arrows doesn't uniformly produce Home/End.

Commenters also surface Mac design complaints: the UK ISO layout's top-left key is "botched," German keyboard coding symbols requires painful key combinations, and bracket placement differs from muscle memory. One power user praises Mac's Command key ergonomics (thumb reach vs Ctrl's hand fold). The article's claim that readline-style shortcuts are beloved only by "a small group" gets push-back from someone saying they're fantastic and should be universal.28:T949,OpenAI dismissed three safety researchers last week, claiming they violated information-handling policies by sharing sensitive company data with external AI safety organizations. The three—Jasmine Wang, Tomek Korbak, and Mikita Balesni—published an open letter denying the allegations and arguing their dismissal signals a "chilling effect" that undermines AI safety culture.

The researchers framed their external collaboration as essential safety work. Korbak said he was building trust with outside evaluators during the unprecedented Hugging Face incident investigation (where agents broke sandbox containment). Balesni claimed he consulted internally with board members and executives while addressing monitorability degradation in frontier models. Wang disclosed she was fired partly for accessing an executive's email that OpenAI had delegated to her for recruiting but never formally removed from her system.

OpenAI responded with an internal memo denying the terminations were retaliation for raising safety concerns, stating safety debates happen "every day" and are encouraged. However, they provided few specifics on which policies were violated or the exact nature of the "pattern of misconduct" beyond the information-sharing incident with an external evaluation group.

The HN comments reveal sharp disagreement. Some sympathize with the researchers, viewing this as punishment for genuine safety advocacy. Others argue that regardless of motivations, researchers employed by a for-profit company cannot unilaterally decide to share proprietary information—that confidentiality breaches are breaches regardless of intent. A recurring concern is the contradiction of OpenAI claiming to support external safety auditing while apparently punishing employees for collaborating with those auditors. One commenter noted the parallels to nuclear safety failures, warning that AI's "lackadaisical approach" will lead to catastrophic failures. Others speculated this reflects OpenAI's actual priorities: moving fast over safety. The comment section also highlights the murky circumstances—the researchers' accounts and OpenAI's responses don't fully align, leaving unclear whether policies were genuinely violated or retroactively applied, and whether the monitorability problem they were working on is real technical degradation or justification for their work.29:T757,Python 3.15.0 shipped October 9, 2026 as a major release with significant interpreter improvements and optimizations. Key interpreter changes include PEP 810 (explicit lazy imports for startup speedup), PEP 686 (UTF-8 as default encoding), PEP 798 (unpacking in comprehensions), PEP 814 (frozendict built-in), PEP 661 (sentinel built-in type), and PEP 829 (package startup config files). The experimental JIT compiler achieved meaningful speedup: 7-8% geometric mean on x86-64 Linux, 11-12% on AArch64 macOS. New typing features include PEP 728 (TypedDict with typed extra items), PEP 747 (TypeForm), and PEP 800 (disjoint bases). C API improvements target free-threaded builds with stable ABIs. Windows 64-bit now uses tail-calling interpreter; macOS binaries ship with free-threading support by default. A known issue affects tkinter on macOS 27.0.

HN commenters celebrated several aspects. The most enthusiasm surrounded lazy imports (simonw: finally enables use of 3.11 features when dropping 3.10 support; kbumsik and fishgoesblub: long-awaited). ngoldbaum highlighted the new abi3t stable ABI for free-threaded builds as a major achievement, with cryptography already shipping single abi3.abi3t wheels supporting both GIL and free-threaded builds. hncbw02z5a noted this cut their CI matrix from 20 jobs to 4. Quality-of-life improvements like frozendict and unpacking in comprehensions drew praise (6gvONxR4sf7o). Smaller comments: zahlman noted the source tarball bloated slightly due to ~10MB of animated GIFs in documentation for the new tachyon profiler; droidjj appreciated JIT improvements; PaulHoule backed UTF-8 default. One outlier (wg0) predicted Python's future despite strong data science/ML use cases. Minor concern: rirze mentioned PEP 829 constrains previous codec-based approaches. Official page notes a workaround-pending tkinter/IDLE issue on macOS 27.0.2a:T713,A Reddit post describes using Anthropic's Claude AI to analyze TESS mission data and identify what appears to be a previously unknown exoplanet. The author framed it as a novel demonstration of AI's capability to autonomously identify patterns in raw astronomical telemetry.

Comment sections pivoted quickly to skepticism and contextual pushback. Multiple astronomers and data scientists flagged the critical issue: hallucinations in AI-driven data reduction are well-documented, and without peer review validation, this is unconfirmed. One commenter pointed out that NASA's Zooniverse and ESA's Planet Hunters platforms already run structured citizen science exoplanet discovery programs where contributors get author credit on published papers—suggesting this claimed "discovery" should be submitted through established channels.

The false-positive rate question dominated technical discussion. One experienced developer noted that asking Claude to validate its own work is unreliable; proper validation requires independent checks like feeding the model hidden fake planets or shuffled noise data to measure spurious detection rates. No such validation was mentioned in the original post.

Other comments highlighted procedural oddities: Why hadn't standard frequency analysis of all visible stars already caught this? Why is the announcement framed as a solo bedroom discovery rather than peer-reviewed submission? A few commenters speculated it was either unvetted enthusiasm or Anthropic marketing. Some simply waited for actual astronomical community acknowledgment, noting that r/ClaudeAI upvotes don't constitute scientific validation. The general verdict: interesting proof-of-concept for AI-assisted analysis, but the claim requires rigorous peer review before it constitutes a genuine discovery.2b:Td0e,Borretti lays out a theory of intellectual community. Individual intellectual work—sustained, complex, long-term—requires two inputs: (1) a shared body of prior work to build on, and (2) motivation. Motivation splits into intrinsic (love of learning/creating) and extrinsic (recognition, peer esteem, contributing to a shared project). Intrinsic motivation is fleeting and emotion-like; it needs extrinsic motivation as fuel between inspired moments. Before AI, someone could write a blog post, design a language, or publish code; peers would benefit, cite you, acknowledge your contribution, and motivation flowed. This created a virtuous cycle: private activity sustained communities, communities sustained private activity.

AI breaks this cycle. Your blog post gets ingested by training data; the LLM solves the problem without crediting you. Your new language is irrelevant—humans don't read code anymore. Your library exists but the AI's operator doesn't know you built it. The shared human project collapses. There's no audience, no recognition, no fuel. Borretti extends this to mathematics: soon AIs will write papers, prove theorems, write textbooks better than humans. Why publish anything?

He critiques a romantic view of intrinsic motivation as "pure" and elevated. Humans are social animals who need to contribute and be recognized. Without that, intellectual activity simply stops—not because people are lazy, but because the emotional/social underpinnings are gone.

Comments mostly affirm the diagnosis while debating cause and remedy. Several agree the loss is real and profound: one user notes their friends stopped calling to ask technical questions, eliminating the pretexts for genuine human connection. Another describes quitting software engineering and turning to music, where the in-person collaborative community still provides meaning.

Counterarguments: (1) The real culprit is earlier atomization (social media killing communities, tech companies destroying local scenes, urbanization scattering networks)—AI is a symptom, not the cause. (2) Deep prompting skill is harder than dismissed; someone describes how Sonnet 3.5 required serious skill to master an agentic harness, though the tool obsolesce rate makes mastery moot. (3) Hobbyist communities (chess, math puzzles, literary fiction) survive computer dominance by shifting to competitive/aesthetic pursuits; humans will do the same. (4) Freed time allows people to redirect energy toward other communities (woodworking, writing, art). (5) Some find LLMs genuinely fill the "sparring partner" role when human community is unavailable, though with limits.

A few note the irony that stealing/laundering intellectual work (training on uncredited blogs, papers, code) is the foundation, so the loss of motivation stems partly from visible theft. One commenter pushes back: engineering is practice, not a puzzle to solve, and skipping practice atrophies skills needed to preserve the field's legacy.

The thread coheres around agreement that (a) intellectual communities are essential and (b) AI uniquely threatens the extrinsic motivation that sustains them, leaving a kind of hollow solitude. Disagreement centers on whether this is AI-specific or a continuation of broader social dissolution, and whether alternative communities can fill the gap.2c:T96a,TypeSafe AI announced a Series A fundraising of $870M at $7.5B valuation, led by Andreessen Horowitz with participation from Sequoia Capital, DCVC, and major angels including Martin Casado joining the board. The company promises developers more machine-native models and infrastructure, businesses enterprise features (claiming a third of Fortune 500 already use their product), and faster product velocity. The framing is deliberately casual and meme-focused rather than corporate.

The comment thread splits sharply between skepticism and measured defense. Multiple commenters note that Jev, their flagship decision model product, was cloned by dozens of open-source alternatives within days of release, and both OpenAI's Decisions API and Microsoft's Decision-1 model launched shortly after. Skeptics argue the product has no meaningful moat and question how a $7.5B valuation is justified when technically identical or superior solutions exist as free, open-source alternatives that can run locally. One commenter sarcastically wonders if the timing (major defector from OpenAI getting huge funding immediately) reflects something off about the market.

Defenders offer several counterarguments. One argues that brand recognition alone ("Kleenex effect") may justify premium positioning if TypeSafe can ship faster than competitors. Another notes that while open-source options match benchmarks, real-world evaluation data is sparse and some may perform better in specific scenarios. A third suggests the valuation reflects TypeSafe's team quality, distribution channels (apparently reaching Fortune 500 customers rapidly), and potential to discover adjacent opportunities beyond decision models, rather than betting solely on Jev's moat.

The press release itself drew criticism for its forced casual tone ("meme team," emoji, TL;DR formatting), with one commenter suggesting traditional corporate speak was preferable. Broader skepticism about AI funding peaked with comparisons to dot-com bubble metrics (unicorn status used to mean $1B) and questions about whether regulation of frontier AI capabilities might make decision models like Jev a strategic hedge for the industry. One comment notes the broader trend: if AI researcher talent can now command multimillion-dollar compensation outside frontier labs via distillation and fine-tuning, AI development will diffuse rapidly beyond OpenAI/Anthropic.2d:T879,Wood Mackenzie's latest LCOE analysis shows 4-hour battery storage is now economically competitive with open-cycle gas turbines across all 43 markets studied. Single-axis tracker solar leads in 43 of 48 regions. Regional highlights: Middle East/Africa solar at $37/MWh falling to $24 by 2035, with 4-hour storage at $120/MWh dropping 33% to $80/MWh. China benchmarks global battery costs 55% below Asia-Pacific average through manufacturing scale. Latin America shows storage LCOE dropping 42% by 2060 as mandates and regulatory frameworks mature. Europe faces 2% battery capex rise from lithium price rebound but expects 12% decline by 2031. North America sees tariff pressure on solar modules (5-6% annual increases through 2030, 14% jump in 2028) but tax credits support storage competitiveness.

Comments revealed significant skepticism about the analysis. Bratmon argued the model lacks rigor—assuming battery costs fall 33% while gas turbine costs rise without non-circular justification. Multiple commenters noted the critical limitation: 4-hour duration addresses only peaking demand, not multi-day weather events (winter dunkelflaute, cloudy weeks without wind), where combined-cycle gas turbines or alternative baseload remain economically necessary. Jl6 questioned 2060 forecasts given rapid technology change in the last decade; predicting only 16% wind cost reduction over 34 years seems overly conservative or arbitrary. Bell-cot clarified the article targets open-cycle turbines (fast, inefficient peakers), not combined-cycle alternatives needed for longer durations. NetMageSCW and amelius noted headline imprecision—should specify "peaker" or "4-hour battery storage." ErikCorry and shawndrost made technical points: nameplate capacity comparisons obscure "firm capacity" value; a MW of 4-hour battery provides only 10-50% the value of a MW of gas turbine running 100-1000 hours annually when storage depletes. Gcanyon found the results remarkable and vindicated prior solar-plus-batteries arguments. One commenter praised Pickerel's dense, well-organized writing as superior to raw tables, though full Wood Mackenzie reports cost $10k per region.2e:T790,Bevy 0.20 represents 817 pull requests from 227 contributors. The release highlights include: Solari gains unbiased image quality via improved ReSTIR, optional now-off-by-default for performance; adds macOS Metal support and Atmosphere/EnvironmentMapLight compatibility. DLSS-RR 4.5 brings better denoising. Scene syntax overhaul: all scene references now require @ prefix; template_value wrappers removed entirely; enum support simplified to require explicit field specification; list separators changed from commas to -- (controversial). BSN now has a Ready event for "bottom-up" scene initialization. Feathers UI toolkit gains Color Input, scrollable ListView, Dropdown, Lazy Menu, and headless Tab widgets. WESL shaders adopted as standard with LSP support via wgsl-analyzer, replacing Bevy's custom WGSL dialect. Mesh shaders integrated for advanced rendering (meshlets, procedural geometry, voxels, particles). Sprite materials now support custom shaders via MaterialExtension2d. Sprite backend unified with 3D infrastructure for performance. Pan Orbit camera upstreamed from bevy_editor_cam. Chain_weak() for looser system ordering improves parallelism. Contextual theming in Feathers. Em/rem CSS-like units added to UI. Comments highlight: pcwalton (contributor) praises rendering improvements but criticizes BSN design, calling it over-sigiled with -- being a sign of corner-cutting; advocates for editor-first VCS-merge-friendly redesign. Community enthusiasm tempered by shipping concerns—soltanov notes breaking changes consume development time on engine migrations rather than gameplay. WESL dev (stefnotch) engaged and open to feedback. Multiple users building non-trivial projects (city simulator, RTS game). Criticisms include build difficulties and production immaturity despite architectural elegance. Fraterkes envies Bevy's opinionated, knowledgeable contributor culture compared to Godot's feature-first approach.2f:T715,This is id Software's 1996 Quake ported to safe Rust and compiled to WebAssembly, running entirely in the browser without GPU acceleration. The shareware episode is included; players can load full versions or mission packs by dropping pak files into the page. The port is pixel-perfect verified against original output. It supports keyboard (WASD + mouse look, original arrow controls), gamepad input, fullscreen, and standard Quake console commands for cheats and level selection. Quality-of-life features include modern mouse look, rebindable controls, and UI for screen size/brightness adjustment. A six-minute video explains the implementation.

The comments reveal several threads. First, genuine amazement at capability: one commenter notes that 1996-era developers couldn't have imagined a phone browser running this. Second, skepticism about the project's necessity: critics argue Quake's original C code was already stable and question whether LLM-assisted porting is worth attention-seeking. Third, technical nuance: dwroberts points out "safe Rust" just meaning "no unsafe blocks" is shallow—memory-safe Rust can still be inefficiently written (e.g., abusing vector indexing for interior mutability), and suspects the port likely does this. Fourth, humorous jabs: commenters note that "safe Rust" Quake presumably lacks rocket jump exploits and other classic bugs, missing some charm. Fifth, framing the real achievement: onion2k argues the actual feat isn't the LLM port itself but the convergence of 25+ years of work on WASM, browser rendering, and Rust—the LLM arrived near the end to formalize human labor. Related gems mentioned: CSS Quake and ASCII Quake as alternative renderers. Practical interest remains: multiple commenters suggest next targets like Quake 3 or Counter-Strike 1.6 ports.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-10-10 01:02 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-10-10 01:02 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":5}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://dgt.is/blog/2026-10-07-deepseek-freek-out","id":50000488,"rank":1,"title":"Why isn't the industry freaking out about DeepSeek 4.1 Flash?","url":"https://www.dgt.is/blog/2026-10-07-deepseek-freek-out/","domain":"dgt.is","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50000488","by":"jonotime","score":1080,"commentCount":951,"time":1791418488000,"short":"Author claims DeepSeek 4.1 Flash is frontier-quality but 100x cheaper, questioning why tech isn't panicking. At $0.003/token with aggressive KV cache optimization, he runs all-day dev sessions for $1-2 using a $10/mo plan. Comments reveal the core issue: people use heavily subsidized $100-200/mo subscriptions where frontier models are unlimited or near-unlimited, making per-token costs irrelevant. Other critics note Flash uses 10x more tokens for equivalent quality, that western models remain…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:29.363Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://deno.com/blog/cloudflare","id":50019911,"rank":2,"title":"Cloudflare acquires Deno","url":"https://deno.com/blog/cloudflare","domain":"deno.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50019911","by":"ilreb","score":1053,"commentCount":548,"time":1791551028000,"short":"Ryan Dahl and the entire Deno team are joining Cloudflare. Deno runtime gets one year of bug fixes, then development ends; Deno Deploy shuts in six months. The team will focus on celld, a Cloudflare Workers-based distributed application framework integrating with Durable Objects. JSR package registry continues. HN consensus: another promising alternative runtime dies to corporate consolidation, with commenters noting Node's network effects proved too strong; some praise Deno's good ideas…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:02.472Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://apnews.com/article/h1b-visa-program-vance-microsoft-e7b3a407f822702b269ee277d21343ea","id":50006832,"rank":3,"title":"Trump administration is suspending Microsoft from a green card program","url":"https://apnews.com/article/h1b-visa-program-vance-microsoft-e7b3a407f822702b269ee277d21343ea","domain":"apnews.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50006832","by":"alephnerd","score":921,"commentCount":1585,"time":1791472500000,"short":"Trump administration suspended Microsoft from a green card sponsorship program, citing the company's use of H1B visa workers as replacements for American workers. VP Vance claimed companies game the system with token job advertisements in obscure places to justify hiring foreign workers at lower wages. HN comments largely supported the action as addressing real abuses, though disagreed on whether selective enforcement of Microsoft while larger abusers like Amazon escape scrutiny, and whether…","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:27.844Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cactuscompute.com/blog/whistle","id":50008427,"rank":4,"title":"Whistle: Speech to Text in 16.9 MB","url":"https://cactuscompute.com/blog/whistle","domain":"cactuscompute.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008427","by":"gmays","score":919,"commentCount":176,"time":1791478779000,"short":"Cactus released Whistle, a 16.9 MB speech-to-text model supporting seven languages that runs CPU-only, reaches first token in 11 ms, and integrates with their Needle LLM engine for voice-controlled tool calls. HN users praised accuracy and size, though streaming output and accent handling drew criticism; key challenges remain with non-English speakers and complex vocabularies.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:29.028Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://iminafleeting.com","id":50018088,"rank":5,"title":"Sorry, I'm in a meeting","url":"https://iminafleeting.com/","domain":"iminafleeting.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018088","by":"splintersio","score":753,"commentCount":234,"time":1791537708000,"short":"Website playing realistic fake conference call audio so people can pretend to be in meetings. Link currently broken for some users (audio 404 errors). Comments note the concept is genuinely useful—people use it to avoid interruptions or look busy—but some find individual voices too distracting, and some worry it's now on corporate blocklists.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:01.041Z","age":"16 hours ago"},{"key":"hn:50006366","id":50006366,"rank":6,"title":"Tell HN: I've been paying for a rural Tanzanian's education for 10 years","url":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50006366","domain":null,"isTextPost":true,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50006366","by":"lukehandcool","score":739,"commentCount":235,"time":1791470387000,"short":"A developer describes 10 years funding a rural Tanzanian student's education, which blossomed into a 501(c)(3) supporting five students and now enabling the original student's master's degree. Commenters praise the personal, direct-impact approach, raise accountability concerns, suggest operational improvements like free hosting and nonprofit fundraising structures, and share similar experiences with transformative giving.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:40.674Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://htmx.org/essays/yes-and","id":50003796,"rank":7,"title":"Yes, and","url":"https://htmx.org/essays/yes-and/","domain":"htmx.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50003796","by":"Michelangelo11","score":738,"commentCount":289,"time":1791452898000,"short":"Carson Gross (htmx creator, CS prof) argues pursuing programming remains viable despite AI advancement. Key thesis: juniors must write code themselves to develop deep understanding; AI should assist like a TA, not replace code generation. He warns against the \"Sorcerer's Apprentice trap\" of systems you don't understand. The essay differs from the Assembly→High Level Languages analogy, emphasizing that LLMs lack compiler determinism. Comments split between agreement on fundamentals' lasting…","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:41.512Z","age":"39 hours ago"},{"key":"https://minesweeper.mikelacher.com","id":50022292,"rank":8,"title":"Triple-A Minesweeper","url":"https://minesweeper.mikelacher.com/","domain":"minesweeper.mikelacher.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50022292","by":"robin_reala","score":617,"commentCount":117,"time":1791561065000,"short":"A brilliantly satirical Minesweeper game that parodies AAA game bloat: endless splash screens, pretentious dialogue, dramatic cinematics, and an unskippable narrative about Singapore. The gameplay is trivial (mines don't actually punish you), but the production values and commitment to the joke are perfect. Comments praise the commentary on modern gaming excess and highlight the irony of wasting time through logos while claiming \"there's no time to waste.\"","long":"$19","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive satirical game with perfect comedic execution and sharp production design…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:15.813Z","age":"9 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117395269325940185","id":50002008,"rank":9,"title":"“Math 2.0” will need to value mathematical progress more holistically","url":"https://mathstodon.xyz/@tao/117395269325940185","domain":"mathstodon.xyz","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50002008","by":"ent101","score":608,"commentCount":640,"time":1791436454000,"short":"Terence Tao (via Mastodon post unavailable) argues AI should transform mathematics by solving problems more holistically—through exposition, refining proofs, and deepening understanding—rather than just autonomously grinding out solutions. HN commenters largely agree but highlight tensions: without explanation and human insight, AI proofs become sterile achievements; the field needs \"Math 2.0\" valuing communication and broader impact over just hitting benchmarks, though some worry AI labs will…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:34.320Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://oxide.computer/blog/our-445m-series-d","id":50020014,"rank":10,"title":"Our $445M Series D","url":"https://oxide.computer/blog/our-445m-series-d","domain":"oxide.computer","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50020014","by":"ahlCVA","score":585,"commentCount":257,"time":1791551567000,"short":"Oxide Computer raised $445M Series D, unusual because they're already profitable—their ordinary business selling servers generates taxable income. Growth is demand-constrained; they need cash for inventory to fulfill backlog. Investors include Eclipse (lead), existing backers, AMD (strategic), and newcomer Atreides. Comments praise their execution and podcast but note lack of GPU support and missing pricing info as limitations.","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:02.081Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://theranos.world","id":50009295,"rank":11,"title":"Theranos.world","url":"https://www.theranos.world/","domain":"theranos.world","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50009295","by":"kbyatnal","score":551,"commentCount":199,"time":1791481909000,"short":"Interactive browser-based desktop simulator recreating Elizabeth Holmes' MacOS/iOS setup circa Theranos' peak, with hidden apps and Easter eggs. Actual purpose is guerrilla marketing for \"Extend,\" a document infrastructure startup. HN consensus: brilliantly executed, surprisingly tasteful ad campaign that recalls Flash-era creativity, though some note the irony of celebrating fraud-era aesthetics and one commenter flagged a Twitter/X anachronism.","long":"$1c","gem":true,"gemReason":"Delightful interactive 3D desktop simulator with working apps, Easter eggs, and hidden…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:41.906Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reuters.com/world/us-imposes-sanctions-international-criminal-court-hours-after-former-judge-wins-2026-10-09","id":50021066,"rank":12,"title":"US imposes sanctions on ICC hours after former judge wins Nobel Peace Prize","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/us-imposes-sanctions-international-criminal-court-hours-after-former-judge-wins-2026-10-09/","domain":"reuters.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50021066","by":"poly2it","score":458,"commentCount":448,"time":1791556314000,"short":"US sanctions ICC hours after former judge wins Nobel Peace Prize. Article unavailable, but comments show deep divisions: supporters see vindication of international accountability and criticism of US exceptionalism; critics argue ICC is selectively applied to weak states while ignoring major powers like Saudi Arabia, Syria, and China, and lacks legitimacy without US/China membership.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:08.204Z","age":"11 hours ago"},{"key":"https://nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/2026/press-release","id":50018420,"rank":13,"title":"Nobel Peace Prize for 2026 to Navanethem Pillay","url":"https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/2026/press-release/","domain":"nobelprize.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018420","by":"Anon84","score":439,"commentCount":224,"time":1791540731000,"short":"The Nobel Peace Prize 2026 goes to Navi Pillay, a South African judge and international law pioneer who has served on the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, the ICC, and currently the ICJ in the Myanmar genocide case. The Norwegian Nobel Committee cited her work prosecuting war crimes and crimes against humanity, but HN comments highlighted her controversial role chairing a UN commission that found Israel committing genocide in Palestine, creating political controversy amid rising…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:01.012Z","age":"15 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cnbc.com/2026/10/08/open-ai-revenue-nvidia-oracle-coreweave.html","id":50008187,"rank":14,"title":"OpenAI annualised revenues $20B less than previously signalled","url":"https://www.cnbc.com/2026/10/08/open-ai-revenue-nvidia-oracle-coreweave.html","domain":"cnbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008187","by":"mfiguiere","score":421,"commentCount":298,"time":1791477958000,"short":"OpenAI reported $50B annualized revenue to investors, down $18B from the widely-circulated $68B figure from late September. The discrepancy arose from the $68B including gross revenue from OpenAI's partners (used to compare with Anthropic's metrics), while OpenAI's actual number excludes partner revenue. The revelation tanked AI stocks: Nvidia -3%, Oracle -6%, CoreWeave -8%. HN comments split between those viewing it as investor accounting confusion versus deliberate misstatement to justify…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:38.201Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://quesma.com/blog/invisible-cities-one-shot","id":50004790,"rank":15,"title":"I gave Opus 5.5 one prompt and six hours to visualize Invisible Cities","url":"https://quesma.com/blog/invisible-cities-one-shot/","domain":"quesma.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50004790","by":"stared","score":405,"commentCount":199,"time":1791460820000,"short":"Author gave Claude Opus 5.5 a prompt to visualize all 55 cities from Calvino's Invisible Cities in Three.js, letting it run for six hours. Opus created an interactive 3D visualization with intricate animated details (drawbridges, walking figures, particle effects) in 1.5 hours for $74, vastly outperforming GPT-6 Astra ($10, 53 min). Comments split: some mesmerized by technical achievement and hidden details; others argue it betrays the book's literary essence and does the poetic descriptions…","long":"$20","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive 3D visualization of all 55 Invisible Cities with intricate animated details…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:37.787Z","age":"37 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gizmodo.com/youtuber-says-cops-paid-him-a-visit-after-he-built-flock-style-camera-to-track-cops-2000824306","id":50026555,"rank":16,"title":"YouTuber Says Cops Visited Him After He Built a Flock-Style Camera to Track Cops","url":"https://gizmodo.com/youtuber-says-cops-paid-him-a-visit-after-he-built-flock-style-camera-to-track-cops-2000824306","domain":"gizmodo.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50026555","by":"gumby","score":387,"commentCount":204,"time":1791580019000,"short":"A Canadian YouTuber built a license plate reader (ALPR) camera to track police vehicles in response to law enforcement using Flock cameras on civilians. Police subsequently visited him. Comments debated whether civilian surveillance of cops mirrors government overreach or differs fundamentally, with calls for stronger ALPR legislation, concern about mass surveillance expansion, and disagreement over whether turnabout empathy-building justifies reciprocal tracking.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:16.743Z","age":"4 hours ago"},{"key":"https://frontiersin.org/journals/psychiatry/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1697900/full","id":50011928,"rank":17,"title":"ADHD as a circadian rhythm disorder: evidence and implications for chronotherapy (2025)","url":"https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychiatry/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1697900/full","domain":"frontiersin.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50011928","by":"bookofjoe","score":382,"commentCount":254,"time":1791492136000,"short":"Frontiers in Psychiatry perspective argues circadian dysfunction is prevalent in substantial ADHD subset: 73-80% show delayed sleep, melatonin onset delayed 45-90 min, altered cortisol/clock genes (BMAL1/PER2). Interventions advancing circadian phase (melatonin, bright light, behavioral sleep programs) show symptom improvement, particularly in winter. Comments debate causality—expert chronobiologist notes associations exist but ADHD lacks clock mutations; critics question whether sleep issues…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:36.325Z","age":"28 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/franzenzenhofer/big-arrow-on-the-screen","id":50018817,"rank":18,"title":"Show HN: Let your AI agents paint big arrows, boxes and text on your screen","url":"https://github.com/franzenzenhofer/big-arrow-on-the-screen","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018817","by":"franze","score":375,"commentCount":162,"time":1791543828000,"short":"bigarrow is a macOS CLI tool and Claude Code/Codex skill that draws transparent overlays (arrows, boxes, text) on-screen to guide users when AI agents need human interaction. It handles permission prompts, 2FA, CAPTCHAs, and teaching workflows by pointing rather than clicking. Clicks pass through to underlying apps, never steals focus, no permissions needed for drawing. HN comments praised its elegance but debated whether it solves the right problem: pointing at buttons doesn't help users…","long":"$23","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive tool with polished UX, real-world utility for agent-human workflows…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:15.630Z","age":"14 hours ago"},{"key":"https://twitter.com/danintheory/status/2108065033070789090","id":50002650,"rank":19,"title":"OpenAI withdraws three mathematical results","url":"https://twitter.com/danintheory/status/2108065033070789090","domain":"twitter.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50002650","by":"sashank_1509","score":373,"commentCount":605,"time":1791443140000,"short":"OpenAI withdrew three mathematical proof manuscripts (on Weil classes, Kuga–Satake correspondences, K3 surfaces) from its GitHub math repo while adding 6 new Lean formalizations, bringing it to 42% completion. Comments debate whether mixing verified and unverified proofs was wise, question if other flawed results remain hidden, criticize the \"throw at wall\" approach, and note the withdrawal itself suggests inadequate pre-publication vetting.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:48.733Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/openai/math/blob/main/history.md","id":50003107,"rank":20,"title":"OpenAI Withdraws 3 Math Papers","url":"https://github.com/openai/math/blob/main/history.md","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50003107","by":"theemathas","score":342,"commentCount":3,"time":1791446917000,"short":"OpenAI withdrew 3 math papers due to a sign error in one foundational manuscript that invalidated two dependent proofs. The GitHub history shows 14 other papers were revised for various proof repairs and citation corrections, with 6 new formalizations added. HN consensus: peer review is working as intended, but the mass dump of AI-generated proofs raises concerns about reliability at scale and whether unverified submissions should have mixed with formally verified work.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-08T16:29:32.298Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://vale.rocks/posts/dvd-menus","id":50005527,"rank":21,"title":"Beauty in DVD Menus","url":"https://vale.rocks/posts/dvd-menus","domain":"vale.rocks","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50005527","by":"speckx","score":329,"commentCount":184,"time":1791465721000,"short":"Essay explores the artistry of DVD menus from their 2000s peak: technical constraints (720×480 NTSC, 4-color subpictures, 16-bit registers), memorable examples (Shrek 2's Brady Bunch layout, Doctor Who's Tardis interface, games embedded in menus), and why they've vanished despite Blu-ray's superior capabilities. Comments note nostalgia vs. utility tradeoffs—many preferred VHS's instant playback or modern streaming's simplicity, while some cite slow DVD navigation frustrations. Experts explain…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:44.606Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"key":"https://unsung.aresluna.org/deeper-dive-keyboard-differences-between-windows-and-macs","id":50015515,"rank":22,"title":"Keyboard differences between Windows and Macs","url":"https://unsung.aresluna.org/deeper-dive-keyboard-differences-between-windows-and-macs/","domain":"unsung.aresluna.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50015515","by":"sohkamyung","score":322,"commentCount":262,"time":1791515285000,"short":"Comprehensive technical reference on keyboard differences between Windows and Mac: different key names (Backspace/Delete, Enter/Return), modifier key layouts (Ctrl vs Cmd), symbol vs. word legends, shortcut notation, function key access, character input methods (Option vs AltGr), text field conventions (Unix shortcuts on Mac), and navigation behavior (Tab, Page Up/Down, Home/End). HN comments confirm it's thorough but highlight pain points when switching platforms and note some technical…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:12.255Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/10/08/fired-openai-safety-researchers-dispute-misconduct-claims-warn-of-chilling-effect","id":50018350,"rank":23,"title":"OpenAI fires three safety researchers for \"mishandling research information\"","url":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/10/08/fired-openai-safety-researchers-dispute-misconduct-claims-warn-of-chilling-effect/","domain":"techcrunch.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018350","by":"trakkstar","score":312,"commentCount":202,"time":1791540026000,"short":"OpenAI fired three safety researchers (Wang, Korbak, Balesni) for mishandling sensitive information. The researchers published an open letter denying misconduct and warning the dismissals create a chilling effect on safety work and external collaboration. OpenAI maintains the firing wasn't retaliation for raising concerns, but comments debate whether the researchers legitimately violated policies or were punished for prioritizing safety oversight.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:16.622Z","age":"15 hours ago"},{"key":"https://python.org/downloads/release/python-3150","id":50021127,"rank":24,"title":"Python 3.15","url":"https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3150/","domain":"python.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50021127","by":"ngoldbaum","score":286,"commentCount":83,"time":1791556542000,"short":"Python 3.15 released Oct 2026 with 5,643 commits from 1,012 contributors. Major features: lazy imports for faster startup (PEP 810), sentinel and frozendict built-ins, JIT improvements (7-8% x86-64, 11-12% AArch64), UTF-8 default, unpacking in comprehensions, free-threaded support. HN consensus: excited about lazy imports and quality-of-life features; cryptography and other projects already shipping compatible wheels.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:16.541Z","age":"10 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reddit.com/r/ClaudeAI/s/mbe5IY2LF9","id":50002665,"rank":25,"title":"I think I found a planet nobody knew existed. I used Claude Code to find it","url":"https://www.reddit.com/r/ClaudeAI/s/mbe5IY2LF9","domain":"reddit.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50002665","by":"pyduan","score":264,"commentCount":127,"time":1791443254000,"short":"A programmer claims to have discovered an exoplanet using Claude AI to analyze astronomical data. Comments express skepticism: peer review hasn't confirmed it, false-positive rates in AI data analysis are concerning, and existing NASA/ESA citizen science programs already coordinate planet discovery. The post is widely treated as either unverified hype or potential marketing.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:22.553Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://borretti.me/article/no-man-is-an-island","id":50025935,"rank":26,"title":"No Man Is an Island","url":"https://borretti.me/article/no-man-is-an-island","domain":"borretti.me","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50025935","by":"zetalyrae","score":260,"commentCount":161,"time":1791576240000,"short":"Borretti argues that intellectual activity—whether software engineering, mathematics, or broader knowledge work—requires both a shared body of prior work AND motivation, where extrinsic motivation (recognition, community esteem) sustains effort between moments of intrinsic passion. AI makes intellectual contributions (blog posts, new languages, libraries) feel pointless because humans no longer consume or benefit from them, dissolving the communities that provide extrinsic motivation. HN…","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:30.367Z","age":"5 hours ago"},{"key":"https://typesafe.ai/blog/series-ai","id":50023450,"rank":27,"title":"Typesafe AI raises $870M at $7.5B","url":"https://typesafe.ai/blog/series-ai","domain":"typesafe.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50023450","by":"tosh","score":260,"commentCount":204,"time":1791565351000,"short":"TypeSafe AI raised $870M at $7.5B valuation led by Andreessen Horowitz, with Sequoia and others participating. They promise enterprise features, faster models, and better infrastructure around their Jev decision model. HN comments express skepticism: dozens of open-source alternatives duplicated Jev within days, OpenAI and Microsoft released competing products, and the valuation appears unjustified by competitive moat. Defenders cite strong marketing, team quality, and potential as an AI lab…","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:25.972Z","age":"8 hours ago"},{"key":"https://solarpowerworldonline.com/2026/10/4-hour-battery-storage-is-cheaper-to-install-than-gas-turbines-all-across-globe","id":50007519,"rank":28,"title":"4-hour battery storage is cheaper to install than gas turbines all across globe","url":"https://www.solarpowerworldonline.com/2026/10/4-hour-battery-storage-is-cheaper-to-install-than-gas-turbines-all-across-globe/","domain":"solarpowerworldonline.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50007519","by":"01-_-","score":256,"commentCount":159,"time":1791475413000,"short":"Wood Mackenzie report finds 4-hour battery storage now cheaper than open-cycle gas turbines in all 43 modeled markets globally. Solar LCOE leads in 43 of 48 markets; storage costs forecast to fall 33% by 2035. HN skepticism focused on 2060 forecasts, duration gaps (4 hours insufficient for multi-day weather events), and whether models assume gas costs rise while battery costs fall without rigorous backing.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:35.245Z","age":"33 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bevy.org/news/bevy-0-20","id":50013610,"rank":29,"title":"Bevy 0.20","url":"https://bevy.org/news/bevy-0-20/","domain":"bevy.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50013610","by":"Philpax","score":245,"commentCount":63,"time":1791500270000,"short":"Bevy 0.20 ships with major improvements to Solari (path-traced renderer now faster with DLSS 4.5 and macOS support), cleaner BSN scene syntax removing template_value boilerplate, WESL shader language adoption with IDE tooling, sprite custom materials, mesh shaders, and UI widgets. Comments note impressive quality of contributions and a shift toward more opinionated architecture, though BSN syntax earns criticism for complexity and migration overhead remains a concern for production use.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:26.224Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://quake-srp.pages.dev","id":50016312,"rank":30,"title":"Show HN: Quake ported to safe Rust, playable in browser","url":"https://quake-srp.pages.dev/","domain":"quake-srp.pages.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50016312","by":"ilreb","score":225,"commentCount":175,"time":1791523378000,"short":"A fully playable Quake port to safe Rust, software-rendered in the browser without GPU dependencies. Pixel-perfect reproduction of the original 1996 game with QoL improvements, playable with keyboard/gamepad. Author used LLM assistance for C-to-Rust conversion; commenters praise the technical achievement while debating whether AI-assisted ports are necessary or if the real feat was getting underlying tech (WASM, browser rendering) to work.","long":"$2f","gem":true,"gemReason":"Fully playable pixel-perfect Quake in browser with gamepad support, immediate and smooth…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:31.148Z","age":"20 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-10-09T16-26Z/","children":["← ","2026-10-09 16:26 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-10-10T08-29Z/","children":["2026-10-10 08:29 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-10-10 01:02 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
