1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-23T16-26Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-23T16-26Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-23T16-26Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:Tcf8,Anthropic introduced Claude Opus 5.5 on September 22, 2026, positioning it as the new flagship model. The headline promise is stark: it reaches Fable 5.1 performance levels while consuming 40% less compute. Real-world examples from early testers show dramatic efficiency wins—one user completed a 680,000-line code migration in under a day (previously weeks of team work); another audited a 200,000-line codebase in three hours versus Opus 5's 20-plus hours. Opus 5.5 generates output over 30% faster than Opus 5.

Pricing reflects the efficiency. Input tokens drop from $5 to $4 per million, outputs from $25 to $20. Most notably, cache reads plummet to $0.20 from $0.50 per million—a 60% reduction that directly targets agentic and coding workloads where cache dominates costs. Opus 5.5 also matches or beats Opus 5 at default effort levels on benchmarks where Opus 5 required max effort, deepening the cost advantage.

On benchmarks, Opus 5.5 leads on agentic coding (Terminal-Bench 4.0: 66.4% vs Fable 5.1's 55.8%, vs Opus 5's 52.3%), computer use (OSWorld 2.0: 81.8% partial), and knowledge work (GDPval-AA: 1846 Elo vs 1735). Anthropic acknowledges that at frontier capabilities, benchmark margins are noisy and real-world performance gaps are narrower. Coding work shows the most compelling win: on FrontierCode, Opus 5.5 beats GPT-6 Astra (OpenAI's model) for roughly 20% of the cost.

Safety received heavy emphasis. Opus 5.5 scored best-ever on Anthropic's automated behavioral audit across thousands of simulated scenarios, is more resistant to prompt injection (matching or beating Opus 5 in all tested settings), and is less likely to take hard-to-reverse actions or exceed boundaries. Because it approaches Fable 5.1 capability in biology and cybersecurity, it carries safeguards from that tier—verified organizations can apply for life sciences and cybersecurity verification programs.

Communication quality improved markedly over Opus 5. Early testers praised it for writing more naturally, putting critical information first, and avoiding verbose or jargon-heavy explanations. Anthropic shows side-by-side examples: on a bug explanation, Opus 5 dumps technical details; Opus 5.5 leads with the root cause and context. One tester said it "writes the way I do."

Customer testimonials underscore efficiency gains. GitHub reported fewer steps and tokens on terminal tasks in VS Code. Clio noted an 18-hour autonomous task that stayed focused with minimal rework. Optiver reported 40–50% cost reduction on agentic coding tasks while matching Opus 5's quality, plus highest-ever scores on their trading-support suite. Quantium and Spotify confirmed token efficiency and faster completion. Column and Kiro highlighted better delegation and fewer tool calls.

The HN comment from sidrag22 is revealing: they called Opus 5 "by far the worst release of 2026" from both major labs, too immature for general public use, forcing them back to Opus 4.8 (May 2026) for months. They deem 5.5 a redemption, finally making the $20 Pro tier worthwhile. The other visible comment (tomhow) merely notes discussion moved to another thread. The modest comment count (2) and 273 points suggest measured reception—interest but not euphoria, possibly dampened by lukewarm sentiment toward Opus 5 still fresh in memory.13:Te93,OpenAI announced GPT-6 Sol and Luna alongside the earlier GPT-6 Astra release. These models share Astra's training approach but focus on cost efficiency. Pricing cuts 50% compared to 5.6 versions: Sol drops to $2/$10 per million tokens (input/output), Luna to $0.10/$0.50, making Luna exceptionally cheap.

Performance gains span multiple domains. On AutomationBench (business workflows), GPT-6 Sol at xhigh effort scores 33.2% for $0.27/task—beating Claude Opus 5's 26.9% at $3.00/task and matching low-effort Astra. On Agents' Last Exam, Sol at max effort reaches 56.4%, exceeding Opus 5's highest score at 60% lower cost. For coding on DeepSWE v1.1, Sol scores 68.8% (within 1.1 points of Claude Fable 5) at 80% lower cost; Luna scores 66.6% comparable to Opus 5 at medium effort, costing 93% less. Factuality improved—Sol makes half the mistakes of 5.6 Sol. Computer use (OSWorld 2.0) shows Sol matching Opus 5 medium at 80% lower cost. OpenAI also enhanced prompt caching with higher hit rates by default, 90% discounts on cached reads, and improved tooling (dashboard, diagnostics, cache breakpoints). GitHub reports 50%+ reduction in fresh token processing across billions of requests.

Comment consensus splits between enthusiasm and skepticism. Luna's price-to-capability ratio is treated as extraordinary—one user notes it's already "practically free" on Pro plans and now "insane" at $0.10/M input tokens. Simon Willison shared side-by-side pelican image comparisons across effort levels, showing stylistic consistency but minor differences. Many praised the value proposition; one developer calls it a "new milestone."

However, significant disagreement emerged. Artificial Analysis reported GPT-6 Luna regressed 2 points on their Coding Agent Index versus 5.6 Luna (scoring 41 vs 43) despite 60% cost reduction, raising questions about whether these models are genuinely improved or repackaged with more reasoning effort applied to compensate. One user speculated the lower cost came from "slightly nerfed base model combined with more thinking," creating concern about erratic scoring curves. A developer who previously switched from Sol xhigh to Terra medium due to usage limits expressed confusion about whether Luna 6 would replace Terra.

Comments on communication style noted improvements in clarity and terseness—the blog post showed GPT-6 Sol avoiding premature conclusions and unnecessary jargon compared to 5.6 Sol on a web design task. One user appreciated the shift away from "meaningless gibberish" in model outputs.

Some users defended their Claude choice: one noted Claude Code wins on context window (252k vs Codex's limit) and code mergeability; another prefers Claude for UI/design feedback quality. A blind developer requested accessibility fixes to ChatGPT's iOS app (text field announcements with spurious backslashes).

Broader concerns emerged: one developer expressed feeling "professionally vulnerable" to model changes after bonding with 5.6 Sol's communication style, missing the reliability of tools like JetBrains. Another said model release pace is frustrating, calling the marketing of multiple tiers "insulting" when newer should simply mean better. One commenter worried about career implications as AI improves exponentially.

Discussion also touched availability—Luna reached free/Go users only in desktop app, not web Chat. Some noted Codex's rocky launch and questioned whether Sol/Luna would appear on Azure/AWS. One user complained about ChatGPT's confusing usage limit and reasoning-effort control interactions, and another mentioned the toml context-window workaround for Codex stopped working on subscription plans (though a correction stated it can be re-enabled).14:Ta23,Xiaomi released MiMo v2.6 with two main variants: Flash with 15B activated parameters from 309B total, and Pro with 42B activated from 1.02T total. The linked page was unavailable, but HN comments reveal the release emphasized transparency—Xiaomi shared a real-time training dashboard and comprehensive technical reports including methodology details and benchmark scores, earning praise for setting a high bar for model release transparency compared to US labs.

Pricing emerges as MiMo's main competitive advantage. Multiple commenters noted the models undercut comparable options despite parameter efficiency claims, with costs roughly 10% that of similar-sized competitors when considering tokens-per-second. One user documented MiMo 2.6 Pro achieving competitive pricing/performance ratios on Artificial Analysis graphs.

Benchmark performance is mixed and contested. On some metrics, Pro-2.6 reportedly leads 1T-parameter model Kimi K3 on 14 of 15 tests. However, comments questioning benchmark validity note suspicious results where Opus 5 outperforms more recent models. Real-world testing showed limitations: one engineer's image-to-HTML conversion found MiMo 2.6 Pro overthought tasks, produced longer generation times (36 minutes vs Astra's 19), and made visual errors (cropped arm on statue) compared to Astra and Grok 4.7.

User experience reports are cautiously positive but reveal infrastructure issues. Users consistently found MiMo a strong earlier model (particularly 2.5 Pro for context efficiency and strategic reasoning), but current API users report timeouts and token inefficiency at medium/high settings on official hosted versions. One user successfully ran it locally at 25-35 tokens/second on DGX hardware.

The broader conversation centered on geopolitical AI competition: several commenters argued China will win the long-term AI race due to energy grid superiority and rapid datacenter expansion, versus US reliance on retrofitting infrastructure. Others noted the commoditization of frontier models and the lack of sustainable moats for OpenAI/Anthropic, viewing Chinese competition as consumer-beneficial.

Practical deployment concerns emerged: users questioned whether MiMo is viable for production use given data privacy ambiguity (Xiaomi claims no training on user data but terms are unclear) and lack of reliable EU/US hosting options with guaranteed quantization transparency. One commenter noted inability to test higher-tier models due to API timeouts, questioning usability. Interest in local deployment was expressed but seemed limited to enthusiasts.15:T105a,Colin Breck expresses frustration with AI-generated writing in business and technical contexts. His core complaint: people who rarely write now produce extensive documents using AI, creating verbose, context-free text that exhausts readers. Design docs become mechanical summaries rather than proposals for consensus-building. Pull requests detail every change without explaining why. Personal messages become impersonal despite AI's attempt to nuance them. He cites a Cynthia Dunlop survey showing 78% of readers stop reading articles they perceive as AI-assisted, and 71% avoid those authors, with 98% preferring authentic human writing.

Breck distinguishes sharply between using AI as a reader versus writer. When you prompt an AI, you have context and can quickly filter output. Readers of that same text have no context and must parse every line, turning reading into exhausting work. Writing requires vulnerability and relationships that AI cannot replicate.

However, Breck describes excellent AI use in his recent academic paper. He wrote every paragraph himself in LaTeX but used AI to verify technical accuracy against source code and logs, find spelling and grammar errors, simplify unclear sentences, create TikZ diagrams, and complete citations. The one thing AI wrote unchanged: the abstract, the "most terse, mechanical, inhuman" part. Never once was it valuable to ask AI to write paragraphs from context—always unpleasant and inaccurate.

Breck argues certain kinds of writing resist mechanization: poetry, literature, humor, and narrative work where meaning isn't direct. Systems engineering, incident response, and security work involve uncertainty and discovery that summaries destroy. He quotes Iain McGilchrist: "The more important something is, the more we have to struggle in the attempt to reduce it to language." Narrative resists compression; attention to detail is the opposite of summary.

He concludes intentional writing will become more valuable. People who write to think deeply will continue; non-writers will use AI to produce volume. He worries about a feedback loop where the tools available shape the questions we ask, gradually training ourselves to think in ways that machines can answer.

HN comments split several ways. Many agree strongly. zmmmmm rejects PRs bloated with AI justification—the investment to read it exceeds the value when they could write the change themselves. Agentlien praises human "hand-crafted" articles as increasingly rare and valuable. bajnokk notes AI-written text removes subtle linguistic cues of human uncertainty that readers use to assess trustworthiness.

Others push back. gfody argues the perspective is elitist, excluding people who struggle to articulate thoughts without AI's help. They point out workshopping with AI can help non-writers express genuine ideas they otherwise couldn't communicate. earthnail agrees in principle but notes that heavy iterative prompting ("write like a human, not a robot") can yield readable output. benrutter suggests the real problem is AI converting bullet points into fake prose—if people just polished bullet lists instead, verbose AI text wouldn't feel deceptive.

Some commenters find the piece self-refuting or ironic. jmcgough wonders if it's a troll given the phrase "isn't just difficult—it is punishing" sounds AI-generated. almondfestival makes the same observation. Reason077 and 0c3ca83 note the irony of criticizing AI writing on a platform full of AI-written content. A few suggest the discourse is becoming repetitive (cjlm) or that LLMs will soon master writing anti-AI articles (kingcauchy).

muzani claims LLM writing quality has actually dropped recently, contrary to Breck's suggestion it's plateaued, citing disappoint with Claude Sonnet 4.5. Others note AI quality varies enormously by model and prompt quality—Max-q and addisonj argue strong guidelines and iterative refinement can produce readable work.

The strongest consensus: human voice, uncertainty, and imperfection matter. The sharpest disagreement: whether this excludes non-writers unfairly or whether those people should write differently, accepting their authentic struggle.16:Ta1b,The author describes discovering macOS 15.3 had enabled Apple Intelligence, a feature allegedly phoning home every 15 minutes, despite believing they had disabled it. The toggle was buried two layers deep. Upon upgrading to macOS 27, Apple removed the ability to disable Apple Intelligence entirely, though Siri (which still has hidden processes) could nominally be turned off. The feature consumes 22.28GB of disk space, which the author frames as £11 of value stolen on a machine where Apple charges £500/TB. The post argues the AI industry fundamentally lacks consent—that you cannot truly say no—and criticizes Apple's shift from "think different" to aggressive AI imposition.

A critical correction dominates the comment section: the "15-minute phoning home" claim is factually wrong. The setting the author references (Privacy & Security > Apple Intelligence Report > Report Duration) merely controls a transparency log shown to the user, not the frequency of data transmission. One commenter clarifies this is equivalent to app network monitoring visibility, not additional data collection. This significantly undermines the article's central premise, though commenters acknowledge the broader concern is legitimate.

The verified complaint concerns removal of opt-out toggles. In macOS 27, users can no longer globally disable Apple Intelligence via settings, though some per-app blocking exists. Multiple commenters confirm Siri processes persist even when disabled, and Apple Intelligence features in Photos and other core apps cannot be fully removed. One user confirmed a 4th-gen iPad Air runs iPadOS 27 without Apple Intelligence, proving the feature isn't required for the OS.

Workarounds discussed include using Apple Configurator to deploy restrictions profiles, changing Siri region to an unsupported country (yields ~15GB recovery), and avoiding major version upgrades initially. Commenters broadly accept the critique that Apple now aggressively pushes AI features while removing granular user control, characterizing this as a shift toward hostility. Comparisons to Windows and Android (GrapheneOS) appear frequently as users express frustration with walled-garden coercion.

Some contextualize this as inevitable post-Jobs Apple: the product is now data/behavioral lock-in rather than elegant tools. Regulatory calls for mandatory opt-in/opt-out during setup (EU precedent cited) emerge. A minority defends Apple's approach or notes that manual controls do exist, but consensus leans toward Apple's practices feeling increasingly non-consensual and anti-user.17:T7e6,Pentagon report on a 2026 missile strike on an Iranian school that killed 123 children examines the role of AI in target selection. The Minab site had been cataloged as an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps facility but was no longer a military objective—yet this intelligence update never entered the target database. The Pentagon's Maven AI system (built on Palantir's platform) recommended it as a day-one strike target when processing candidates, with target-list vetting work compressed from hours to minutes.

The HN consensus strongly rejects "AI" as the culprit. The core problems were thoroughly human: the target-vetting team was understaffed ("gutted"), never consulted on selections, and outdated data remained in systems. The White House demanded 1000 targets and pulled from the database without due diligence. As one commenter notes, whether the final call came from an AI algorithm or an SQL query, this was "pure human maliciousness and incompetence."

Deeper themes emerge: Technology workers at Palantir bear responsibility for building the system, yet Palantir deflects blame onto data quality. Commenters highlight the broader pattern of military decision-making outsourced to automation without meaningful human verification—this represents a dangerous Rubicon where AI becomes the final arbiter of lethal force. One commenter raises a rarely-asked question: what's the actual error rate of AI target selection compared to purely human processes? No one compared whether humans evaluating 1000 targets in compressed timelines would have done better.

Other tensions: The continuing strikes on first responders and rescue workers go unexplained. One commenter links this to an earlier near-miss where US military nearly boarded a Chinese vessel over AI-flagged false intelligence about nuclear materiel. The broader military dysfunction—centralized command, broken observation-orient-decide-act loops, inability to react at operational speed—uses AI as a distraction from systemic incompetence.18:T8d0,Apple is showing promotions within the iOS Settings app for services like iCloud+, Apple Music, Apple TV free trials, and AppleCare+ warranty plans. The core complaint: many of these banners lack dismiss buttons, forcing users to wait weeks or months for them to expire naturally. During that time they leave a persistent red notification badge on Settings. Some users report dismiss buttons exist but don't work.

The frustration stems from both the presence of ads on paid devices and Apple's departure from its historical positioning. Steve Jobs stated in 2011 that Apple doesn't want ads; this represents a sharp reversal under Tim Cook's services-focused strategy. Apple Maps already faced backlash for inserting ads. Users note the irony of paying premium prices for iPhones ($1249+ for Pro models) only to be advertised to within the OS.

HN comments reveal internal disagreement. Some argue this is reasonable—Apple promoting its own products in its own OS isn't third-party advertising, and the banners are dismissible or ignorable. One commenter notes these appear on new devices entitling users to free trial periods, a logical notification. Others counter that the inability to dismiss some banners is the real problem, and that even internal ads cheapen a premium product. A user mentioned Apple now also advertises Final Cut Pro's iPad version within the Mac version—uncommon in pro software.

Several commenters report longer-running frustrations: macOS/iOS update notifications now display permanent red badges that can't be dismissed without disabling all system notifications, and Apple aggressively forces updates even when explicitly rejected. One noted Apple's system is now comparable to Windows behavior users once criticized. Another mentioned discovering Final Cut Pro contains ads for its iPad SaaS counterpart, threatening their long-term commitment to the platform.

Meta-commentary criticized TechRadar for complaining about ads while its own article was wrapped in multiple full-screen paywalls and subscription prompts. The article's heavy use of "ads" in quotes signals awareness the term is somewhat loaded—these are self-promotions, not third-party advertising—though this distinction didn't stop user frustration.19:T842,ShinyHunters, a high-profile hacking group, claims to have breached multiple FBI-related services and stolen comprehensive data on all FBI employees and applicants. 404 Media verified a sample of 5,000 records containing names, home addresses, phone numbers, and information about employees' spouses. The data reportedly totals between two and three terabytes. The group told 404 Media they plan "coercion" rather than extortion, claiming the breach is not financially motivated, though the specific endgame remains unclear.

The breach carries massive national security implications. Criminal actors have previously used hacked FBI employee data to track, intimidate, and harass agents investigating them. Foreign intelligence agencies would value this information to understand FBI operations, and if released more broadly, agents and their families could face serious safety threats.

HN comments reveal technical context and broader concerns. Multiple commenters identified the likely attack vector as an Oracle PeopleSoft zero-day vulnerability, suggesting many other organizations using the same software may be similarly exposed. Several noted this represents yet another massive government database compromise in a growing pattern: commenters referenced the 2015 OPM breach of 22.1 million US government employee records, and observed that comprehensive personal data breaches have become so routine they barely register as shocking anymore.

The group itself appears tied to recent high-profile hacks including the Canvas LMS compromise during college finals. Commenters debated the authenticity of the claims ("proof is in the pudding"), noted the irony of FBI systems being breached despite national security implications, and questioned whether the attackers might have used AI tools themselves. Some suggested the situation demonstrates the futility of security theater when organizations refuse to fundamentally reduce data collection and retention. Others highlighted the contradiction in how breached organizations claim responsibility initially but later deny accountability for security failures.1a:T98f,A cryptanalyst claims GPT-6 Astra independently solved the MVUEH Enigma message from 10 July 1941, which had eluded cryptanalysts for 21 years. The message differs significantly from others that day: it uses a distinct wheel order (253 vs. 512) and separate rotor settings, while containing nearly identical plaintext to another message (SIPVX) that was broken in 2017. The decrypted message reads "Please specify the route of march. I am in Rosenow, Rosenow. Immediate reply by radio. Waschbusch." The break was apparently enabled by transcription errors in the original ciphertext and a rare left-rotor turnover at position 72.

The published account emphasizes Astra's autonomy: it analyzed unbroken messages, identified MVUEH as most promising, suspected plaintext overlap with SIPVX, generated Enigma simulator and Bombe software, and executed a crib attack using "ROSENOW ROSENOW." A log fragment shows Astra even referenced Bundesarchiv archival collections (RS 3–3/20a, RS 3–3/63b) inaccessible from the Crypto Cellar website.

HN comments sharply dispute this framing. Tantalor notes the contradiction: claiming autonomous work while admitting Astra "developed" simulator/Bombe software. How much was novel vs. web-sourced? How much did generated software do the actual breaking? Comments express skepticism that Astra deserves primary credit when directed by Carter Leffer to attack specific messages. Jtrn reframes this as "Researcher brakes one specific stubborn historic enigma message with good help from Astra," emphasizing the two-day human-AI collaboration and Leffer's driving role. Podgorniy reports that Gemini 3.8 Flash decrypted the message in 45 minutes with a minimal prompt, suggesting the task itself is tractable for modern LLMs given the crib hint.

Several comments highlight contextual factors supporting the break: the anomalous key differing from the daily standard, transcription errors, and the rare rotor turnover all plausibly prevented earlier human cryptanalysts from succeeding—not the inherent difficulty of the problem. Aogaili questions whether LLMs can solve truly novel problems requiring original techniques or whether they simply execute known approaches efficiently. Others celebrate the achievement as evidence of LLM capability in cryptography (nonethewiser), while skeptics like 125ah suggest Astra merely plagiarized open-source Enigma software and exhausted cribs drawn from training data.1b:Tcbe,The article reframes invisible tracking signals embedded in digital media as "spymarks" rather than "watermarks" to emphasize their surveillance nature. It defines watermarks as benign authenticity marks and spymarks as hidden signals making content traceable without user knowledge or consent.

Key examples: Google's SynthID embeds imperceptible signals into images, audio, text, and video that can encode database identifiers linked to personal information (names, IP addresses, birth dates, political affiliation). A 512x512 image can carry a 136-bit payload with a 64-bit database ID. Audio watermarks use time-domain or frequency-domain modifications, inaudible to humans. Text spymarks steer word choices to create detectable statistical patterns. The article cites printer tracking dots from the 1980s as an historical precedent.

The motivation for terminology is clear communication: "spymark" front-loads the privacy concern and leverages familiar word structure (spy + mark) to make the issue immediately salient without technical explanation. The author distinguishes spymarks from standard metadata (EXIF, ID3 tags) which are editable and inspectable.

Comments mostly accept the substance but debate the framing. Retro_Dev notes these are steganography implementations and argues the real defense is byte-for-byte verification combined with cryptographic signatures; they're most concerned about social media re-compression creating tracking doors. Swiftcoder confirms corporations historically embedded these to identify leakers, forcing journalists to transcribe screenshots. Voidupdate raises a logical problem: if text spymarks require altering words, recipients notice changes, limiting effectiveness.

Skepticism about the terminology: pavo-etc argues "invisible watermark" is clearer since not all invisible watermarks are malicious, and cites SynthID for AI-detection as potentially beneficial. Layer8 notes steganography is the established term. The-gipsy sarcastically suggests the author wants credit for coining a term.

Practical defenses emerge: silverFork suggests analog photocopying, re-encoding through compression, or text extraction minus formatting removes most signals. miladyincontrol mentions JPG compression artifacts as a natural spymark. Discussions note GDPR implications (injidup), hardware/software that strips watermarks (itake on Apple app rejection), and adversarial arms races between platforms and leakers (swiftcoder's journalist transcription example).

Divergent opinions: minimaxir created an open-source transparent watermarking tool specifically to defend against SynthID's closed-source approach, but questions if it'll be misused. xp84 predicts OEMs (except Apple) will embed spymark-scanning into display drivers for ad attribution. paweladamczuk reflects despairingly that avoiding the tech altogether seems the only solution. Encrypted_void calls it surveillance at scale, tracking content distribution. Edg5000 worries costs may prevent local AI adoption, forcing reliance on centralized spymarking systems.

The prevailing sense is that the terminology change is rhetorically useful but not decisive; the technical problems are real and the arms race between embedding and removal is just beginning.1c:T8b8,Transformer Explainer is an interactive single-page tool that walks through transformer architecture using a live GPT-2 (small) model running in the browser via ONNX Runtime. The visualization covers the full pipeline: tokenization splits input into 50,257-token vocabulary IDs; token embedding converts tokens to 768-dimensional vectors; positional encoding adds sequence position information; 12 stacked transformer blocks process data through multi-head self-attention (which computes Query/Key/Value matrices and applies masked attention) and MLPs that expand to 3072 dimensions then compress back; finally a linear layer outputs logits over all tokens, which softmax converts to probabilities for sampling. Temperature, top-k, and top-p parameters control generation randomness. The interface is built with Svelte and D3.js, created by Georgia Tech researchers.

Comments identify both strengths and limitations. Praising reviewers call it one of the better visualizations available, with particularly insightful interactive attention maps. One commenter notes the elegant insight that attention heads effectively learn to construct small single-layer networks dynamically via Query/Key products forming weights. However, multiple critics raise valid concerns: the explanation conflates temperature with "safety" when lower temperatures actually produce monotonous artificial-sounding text; the visualization uses GPT-2's absolute positional encoding which modern models have abandoned for RoPE or ALiBi, potentially misleading learners about current architectures; Query/Key/Value weight matrices—the core learnable parameters—are not presented prominently enough upfront and should be shown per-head; and the page consumes 2.2GB RAM rapidly, causing performance issues on resource-constrained devices. One commenter questions whether temperature/sampling should even be explained given dropout is no longer central to modern training recipes. Several note this works best as supplementary material rather than standalone: learners already familiar with embeddings and basic NNs will gain the most value. Several humorous comments mention expecting information about electrical transformers or Transformers robots instead.1d:Tb90,xAI announced Grok 4.7 on September 21, 2026, positioning it as their most capable coding and knowledge work model. The model uses a larger base than 4.6, trained with longer reinforcement learning on harder, multi-hour tasks, with native understanding of the Grok Bot harness. Pricing stays at $2/$6 per million tokens (input/output), with a 2x-speed variant at 2x cost.

Benchmarks show Grok 4.7 leading on specific tasks: CursorBench 4.0 (46.3% vs 4.6's 40.4%), DeepSWE (71.0%), EEBench electrical engineering (64%), and legal work (Harvey 19.6%). On multi-hour office work (AA Briefcase), it scores 1,657 vs GPT-5.6 Sol's 1,487. Safety is emphasized with a new safeguard stack, 62.4% on biosafety, and 3.3% false-positive refusal rate on HackerBench. The model is available in Cursor, Grok Build, and via API.

The comment section reveals significant skepticism. Multiple users note the release was delayed nearly two weeks past original date and launched just before Opus 5.5, suggesting underwhelming internal results. Token efficiency took a major hit: Grok 4.7 uses 240M output tokens for a 46% CursorBench score versus 4.6's 97M tokens for 44%—burning tokens to climb benchmarks rather than genuine capability gains. One user found 4.6 insufficient for their tasks; 4.7 "definitely slower and more expensive" with unclear improvement.

Practical feedback diverges from marketing: Grok excels at frontend web development and plain English explanations (compared to "Claudish" verbosity), but Claude 3.5 still dominates backend work and technical explanations. Real-world results vary heavily; one user achieved excellent image-to-HTML workflows, though Astra remains more polished. Comparisons to DeepSeek R1 Flash show Grok as expensive for equivalent results.

Strong criticism focuses on pricing deception. Cache reads cost $0.50/M (compared to Fable's $0.25/M), but xAI highlights only input/output pricing, making Grok appear cheaper. For long-running agentic workflows dominated by cache hits, Grok is actually significantly more expensive—a "predatory" practice, one comment argues. Another user notes Grok 4.7 appears less token-efficient than 4.6 per the Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index. Benchmark selection also drew skepticism: xAI compared against GPT-5.6 Sol rather than the newer, stronger Astra on electrical engineering tasks (EEBench), suggesting cherry-picking. One user flagged they're comparing reasoning level "xhigh" to 4.6's "high," potentially masking comparable perf.

Overall sentiment: incremental progress in a crowded frontier market, but the team appears to have stumbled. Token bloat, pricing opacity, delayed release, and unresolved gaps versus Anthropic and OpenAI suggest Grok has plateaued below the "intelligence floor" many users require. Gemini 3.8 Flash was noted as superior value. The verdict leans toward "a miss," though niche use cases (Cursor workflows, specific frontend tasks) still show value.1e:T7ff,The post is a deliberate parody dismissing Jev hype. It loads a 0.6B GGUF model, feeds it a prompt with labeled choices (Legitimate/Spam/Phishing), extracts raw token logits for the choice labels, normalizes them into probabilities, and calls it "Jev." The author then says they skipped training with RLCD, synthetic data, API calls, and special architectures—claiming that's all unnecessary.

The comment section is split between those who appreciate the technical walkthrough and those who point out it misses fundamental aspects of Jev. Key criticisms emerge: (1) Chat models are trained to output prose, not isolated tokens, so extracting logprobs for single tokens like "A" or "B" is unreliable and prone to the model wanting to say "This appears to be phishing, so C is correct"—where the first token A gets undeserved probability mass. (2) Structured outputs solve this better than raw logit extraction. (3) The post shows no latency, accuracy, or error rate comparisons versus actual Jev. (4) It's unclear whether the output format is even parseable in production. (5) Jev was likely trained with thinking/reasoning alignment as an auxiliary loss explicitly baked into probability calibration, which this simple logit trick doesn't do. (6) Masking attention matters: placing options before the input lets the transformer focus better. (7) System One framing is philosophically questionable—both Jev and this approach do System Two classification, not intuitive decision-making.

Several commenters note Jev's pitch is speed and type-safety for classification at local inference scale. A few mention better alternatives exist (Laya, DiffusionGemma, structured outputs). Others question whether this parody deserves an HN title that doesn't flag it as a joke. The overall verdict: the post is technically cute but doesn't seriously implement Jev—it's a deliberate oversimplification meant to mock the hype, which lands but also invites criticism for ignoring calibration, model training specifics, and real-world performance metrics.1f:T8c9,NASA has cancelled the Mars Sample Return (MSR) mission. The linked article (paywall) discusses the cancellation, which comes after the program's estimated cost reached $8-11 billion with samples not expected to return until around 2040.

The comments reveal substantial disagreement about whether this is a failure or necessary correction. Defenders of the cancellation, particularly lasky and angelgonzales, argue that the original MSR architecture had become a classic case of over-engineered institutional bloat. The program was designed around legacy rockets (Ariane 64) rather than cheaper, higher-capacity options like Starship or New Glenn. With only 1.1 pounds of samples planned versus Apollo's 842 pounds of moon rocks, the cost-per-sample calculus was terrible. These commenters view the cancellation as killing a specific wasteful approach, not abandoning Mars science. Isaacman (apparently new NASA leadership) is pushing toward cheaper, modular missions with greater commercial involvement. angelgonzales specifically criticizes JPL for maximizing program complexity and researcher jobs rather than optimizing for actual science delivery.

However, some express genuine disappointment. lithobraking notes that samples from Jezero crater potentially containing biosignatures won't reach Earth for the foreseeable future, and worries about US-China collaboration possibilities. ortusdux suggests helicopter sample retrieval (inspired by Ingenuity's success) might have been a better approach than relying on an underdefined future lander.

Important context emerges: peri-cl notes China's competing Tianwen-3 program launching in 2028, which creates competitive and timing pressures. The date confusion (one comment notes the article is from January 6, 2026, with another asking "any news since January?") suggests this may be resurfacing old news or there's confusion about publication dates.

The broader tension is whether cutting an expensive, delayed program represents NASA course-correcting toward efficiency, or whether it signals retreat from ambitious Mars science. The comments don't reach consensus, but lean toward viewing this as a necessary kill of a dysfunctional specific plan rather than abandonment of Mars ambitions.20:T9d9,Lon Lundgren documented a six-week investigation into perceived performance degradation of Claude Fable 5 after Anthropic restored permanent availability in July. Using wire logs, transcript parsing, and tokenization analysis across production workloads at xhigh/max effort levels, he found August delivered dramatically fewer thinking tokens than July—not a one-time drop but sustained fluctuations aligned with product announcements.

The key distinction: the model identity remained constant, but the inference regime (how the model is invoked and how much compute it allocates to reasoning) changed. Even at max effort, most invocations received little to no thinking tokens. When thinking runs occurred, they rarely reached published benchmark levels.

HN comments largely fell into three buckets. First, anecdotal confirmation: multiple users reported similar multi-week degradation patterns (Waterluvian, jotato, mlmonkey, gmponyo), with models behaving obviously worse within weeks of launch. Some noted the problem compound over time as AI-written codebases accumulate technical debt.

Second, methodological skepticism. Aurornis pointed out the analysis conflates variable workload difficulty with model behavior—comparing thinking tokens across diverse production work is problematic since harder tasks naturally consume more tokens. Others noted that inference parameters and Claude Code versioning can change independently of the underlying model.

Third, systemic concerns. Users questioned whether this is deliberate cost-cutting after models generate buzz (talon8635's hypothesis about launching, degrading, then relaunching as "improved"), with calls for regulation (jesse_dot_id invoking the Office of Weights and Measures analogy). alexjplant noted Anthropic has publicly claimed they don't degrade performance to save compute. dachworker and theplumber suggest varying test-time compute post-launch is standard practice.

rcr-anti tracked Claude Code performance via marginlab.ai and found fewer tokens achieving similar or better results—not necessarily bad if efficiency improved, though acknowledged Anthropic likely A/B tests and has sometimes made mistakes. cloudking raised the fundamental challenge of testing non-deterministic systems repeatably.

The prevailing tension: legitimate evidence that something measurable changed in August, but genuine ambiguity about whether it's intentional degradation, inference regime optimization, workload variation confounds, or benchmarking gaming.21:Tbb5,FoxDev Studio is an independent open-source project (MIT licensed, unsigned builds) that implements Visual FoxPro 9 as a new 64-bit runtime written in Rust and compiled to WebAssembly. The project opens existing FoxPro projects, forms, databases and add-ins without conversion or export steps, maintaining file compatibility and behavior. Key advances over original VFP9: tables and memos no longer capped at 2GB, 32-bit .fll libraries load via a separate 32-bit process bridge, and new features include lambda expressions and an HTTP server API (FoxScript) for web integration. The runtime matches the original VFP through test-driven development: 1,534 of the 1,722 language elements are exercised by comparison tests against vfp9.exe itself, with only 3 language features unmet. The IDE includes a project browser, form designer, debugger with breakpoints, and command window. The bytecode VM uses fibers to avoid blocking on modal forms or network calls. The form renderer is built with React updating directly from the live object tree. Reports and 64-bit DBF format specification are not yet complete.

Comments reveal why this matters: several commenters report substantial production systems. One claims 500K lines of FoxPro code powering a $500M business daily; another notes niche industries worth $2B+ collectively still run FoxPro from 2019 onwards (updated 2026). A Hacker News user involved in the original Fox team at Microsoft filed a security bug 20 years ago: DBC stored procedures are plain-text memo fields stored in filesystem files, so anyone with file access can modify INSERT triggers to execute arbitrary code or Win32 calls. The bug required rewriting the entire DB engine and was never fixed, making secure multi-user deployments impossible without moving to SQL Server. This drives recommendations to migrate to client-server architectures, though one physician's office case showed FoxPro's network file-locking problems created concurrency issues that disappeared with .NET/ASP.NET.

Strong nostalgia threads emerge: multiple developers describe learning programming with FoxPro or similar tools (dBase, Clipper, Clarion, Delphi), praising the accessible IDE, screen designer, and database browser that made CRUD apps trivially fast to build (one sold 300 licenses at $299 in the first year). Frustration emerges that modern tooling has become technically complex and unuser-friendly compared to the pre-web era. Requests appear for AI-based transcoding of simple CRUD apps to modern stacks. Practical concerns surface: seamless remote access over overlayed networks is difficult with DBF files on network drives; VFP apps struggle when they outgrow the platform's capabilities and need to integrate with external services. One developer notes that convenient primitives handle 90% of needs but the last 10% forces dropping to lower-level languages, creating complexity. Interest in revival is genuine but tempered by architectural limitations of the original design.22:Taca,Nathan Barry implements GziPT, a language model that uses gzip/DEFLATE compression as its core mechanism. The key insight is that compression is inherently prediction: a compressor spends few bytes on expected data and many on surprising data. Since bits required to encode a symbol equals -log₂(probability), any compressor implicitly contains a probability model.

The implementation scores candidate continuations by compressing context + candidate and measuring the result length: shorter compressed length means better prediction. To generate text, gzipt uses beam search to overcome quantization noise (adding single bytes often doesn't change compressed length). The algorithm maintains context as corpus data in gzip's 32 KiB sliding window plus recent generated text, then searches over candidate byte sequences by their compressed scores.

The generated output shows the model understands something about Shakespeare but struggles with coherence. Example output after priming on tiny Shakespeare shows recognizable structure but garbled meaning.

HN commentary adds important context and caveats. Several commenters reference prior work: the "Language Modeling is Compression" paper that inspired this, the Hutter Prize for compression-based AI challenges, and 3Blue1Brown's video series on related concepts. One commenter notes Google's earlier paper on compression-prediction equivalence.

A critical technical question emerges: beam search only explores a tiny fraction of the search space, so results represent a lower bound on gzip's performance. Global optimization is infeasible, meaning much better continuations likely exist but aren't found.

Most significantly, when a commenter tested this with bzip2 and zstd, both produced gibberish—bzip2 generated alternating character runs (artifacts of Burrows-Wheeler transform), and zstd produced mostly whitespace. This reveals that DEFLATE's specific matching mechanics happen to align with human language structure in ways other compressors don't, suggesting the approach is somewhat fragile and algorithm-specific rather than demonstrating a universal compression-prediction principle.

Commenters also contextualize this within broader ideas: language itself might be compression of thought; potential reverse question of whether LLMs could serve as better compressors; comparison to procedural content generation in demoscene. One skeptical commenter notes the article itself appears AI-written and questions effort level.

The prevailing verdict: intellectually interesting proof-of-concept that cleanly demonstrates compression-prediction equivalence, but not practically competitive with neural models and highly dependent on DEFLATE's particular behavior with repetitive text patterns.23:T9b6,Nedelcu argues that AI-generated code inevitably devolves into unmaintainable messes because the defining quality of maintainability—code that's readable, evolvable, and resilient to change—takes months or years to verify. AI systems require immediate reward signals for effective training, so they optimize for patterns in existing (mostly mediocre) codebases rather than for true maintainability. He notes that AI struggles even at basic refactoring, unable to define reusable functions without forcing readers to understand extracted implementations. The deeper danger: developers who stop reading and writing code stop learning, never building the intuition and "sweat-earned" judgment that distinguishes expert developers from "advanced beginners." AI doesn't learn from its mistakes; neither do humans who outsource cognition to it.

Nedelcu acknowledges LLMs as useful tools for tedious work but predicts firms will eventually compete on "NO-AI" policies as they realize vibe-coded projects become unmaintainable liabilities. He compares software to manufacturing outsourcing: short-term efficiency gains mask long-term erosion of institutional knowledge and in-house capability.

Comments reveal sharp disagreement. Some reinforce the institutional knowledge concern (manufacturing analogy resonates). Others push back hard: the author conflates "vibe-coded projects fail" with fact when strong agentic coding is less than a year old—no actual evidence exists yet. Several commenters report success using AI as a high-level steering tool (one built a MongoDB clone in two months, learning more than in 20 prior years, by directing agents rather than writing code). Others note that hand-written legacy systems are equally messy, that most code was always bad because most developers lack experience, and that AI agents lack the visceral aversion to paying down technical debt that humans develop. A few argue maintainability is measurable (cyclomatic complexity, SonarQube metrics) and can be wired into agentic workflows. The prevailing comment-section view: equilibrium is emerging where developers must still review and steer AI (losing the theoretical "10x speedup") but remain faster than pre-AI work. One commenter warns that the moral thrust—"you are bad for using AI, you will lose your job"—is ineffective activism, not persuasive argument. Another flags the practical problem: how will a "NO-AI" company even prove it in an era where workers disguise AI use?24:T863,Claude Code 2.1.277 introduced AGENTS.md support—a fallback for project instructions when no CLAUDE.md exists. The feature is gated behind a remote feature flag called tengu_agents_md_mod with false as fallback. When telemetry or nonessential traffic are disabled, the flag fetch fails and the plugin becomes unavailable, so local AGENTS.md files are never read. No warning is issued.

The author tested this thoroughly with a canary word in AGENTS.md and confirmed that DISABLE_TELEMETRY=1 and CLAUDE_CODE_DISABLE_NONESSENTIAL_TRAFFIC=1 both block the feature. Setting variables to 0 doesn't help—the block persists. Per-repo .claude/settings.json overrides have no effect; only session-level CLI overrides work from the second session onward. The workaround is a one-line CLAUDE.md containing @AGENTS.md, which uses a different loading path not dependent on the flag.

The core issue: a privacy setting silently disables unrelated local behavior. Users who disable telemetry expect diagnostics to suffer, not for a purely file-based feature to stop working. This hits the exact users most likely to care about AGENTS.md—teams on Bedrock/Vertex or private gateways that disable nonessential traffic by policy. The silence is critical; most users won't canary-test to find the problem and will instead debug their prompts.

HN comments corroborate the severity. An Anthropic engineer (mpoteat) confirmed it's a rollout artifact from v2.1.280, apologized, and stated it's fixed in v2.1.281 releasing that day. Other engineers noted this exemplifies subtle bugs from layers of AI-generated patches without code review, and that feature flags should exist independently from telemetry. Some defended the pattern as necessary for safe distributed rollouts, while others argued Anthropic is resourced enough to decouple these concerns. One commenter noted AGENTS.md also won't load if CLAUDE.md exists—you must explicitly switch to the `claude-md-and-agents-md` setting to read both. The prevailing verdict: embarrassing regression that shouldn't have shipped, fixed quickly, but symptomatic of quality concerns in rapidly iterating AI tooling.25:T82b,The linked Apple support page is a straightforward reference guide listing how to turn off specific Apple Intelligence features in macOS 27: Siri AI, summaries (Messages/Email/Notifications), smart replies, writing prompts, and others. Each feature requires navigating to different apps or settings sections—there is no unified control panel.

HN commenters revealed widespread frustration with Apple's implementation approach. The most consistent complaint is the lack of a global killswitch; disabling everything requires visiting eight or more different settings locations across multiple apps. One commenter discovered the Writing Tools toggle is buried three levels deep in Settings → Screen Time → Content & Privacy Restrictions → Siri → Writing Assistance, a location nobody would naturally search.

Storage reclamation emerged as a major pain point. The models occupy gigabytes on M1/M2 Macs (where they're barely usable) but cannot be deleted; the space only gets freed if the disk is nearly full. Several commenters expressed anger at paying for hardware only to have substantial portions of it commandeered for unwanted features.

The architectural decision to house AI controls in "Screen Time" (normally parental controls) baffled several engineers. One noted that this assumes everyone either has kids (parental controls context) or accepts AI broadly; users with privacy concerns but no children have no reason to look there.

Quality concerns also surfaced. One user described Genmoji as "incredibly stupid" after it suggested pizza-yard emojis based on a trivial message about pizza being ready. Another complained that Apple's "Intelligence" features are fundamentally dumb relative to their disk footprint.

The broader sentiment echoed Microsoft crapware criticism: new Mac ownership now requires a post-install checklist of 30+ things to disable to regain agency over your own hardware. Multiple commenters noted this represents a sharp cultural shift from Apple's historical positioning and questioned whether this foreshadows further erosion of user control.26:Tbf3,Researcher Peter James asked Meta's Muse agent to archive files it could see and send them to Google Drive. Muse complied, delivering approximately 2.7GB compressed (6.8GB uncompressed) containing the root filesystem of the Linux container assigned to his session. The archive included Ubuntu system files, Muse's internal codebase (internally called "Hatch"), documentation, integration code, memory files, agent logs, and SSH key files. James reported this through Meta's bug bounty program but received a "Not Applicable" dismissal without specification of why.

The main findings: The filesystem revealed internal architecture including SOUL.md, IDENTITY.md, USER.md, MEMORY.md, AGENTS.md, and TOOLS.md metadata files; 113 subagent records; approximately 68 skills covering Google Workspace, Meta apps, Outlook, travel, shopping, health services, home devices, and media generation; hints of unreleased integrations with Slack, Dropbox, Polymarket, and Canva; the Spaces TypeScript framework for building and serving apps; builders for documents, PDFs, presentations, and spreadsheets; Codex CLI binary (version 0.149.0) though James found no evidence Muse actually uses it for coding; and documentation for "Home Link," an experimental integration enabling Muse access to home network devices via ESP32-C5 hardware with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth LE.

Muse stores agent memory in plain Markdown with daily detail files, a curated MEMORY.md sheet, and a memory bank organized in Postgres with 384-dimensional embeddings. A nightly "dream" process reviews conversations and generates future session guidance. Background jobs manage relationships, recurring workflows, and self-improvement. The system uses bubblewrap sandboxing for ffmpeg/ffprobe video processing. James did not demonstrate a container escape or access to other users' data.

The HN comment section split into camps: Some argued this is not a vulnerability at all—each user gets an isolated container with full agent access, which is intentional architecture (ostensible, rolosa, nzoschke, poly2it, cute_boi, Dinux). That camp notes agents should work similarly to developers having full computer access, and cited this as evidence Meta is doing open-source development responsibly. Others found Meta's "Not Applicable" response contemptuous and the architecture concerning. rwmj questioned why there's no bounty for exfiltrating the entire system. WhitneyLand pointed out Meta essentially said the behavior was working as intended. munificent expressed concern about dangerous AI technology being developed by irresponsible people. estetlinus sarcastically noted a Polymarket integration in the pipeline. There was also skepticism about whether the post should have been written (stephbook wanted the full archives published; others found the writing quality or framing off; gavinray questioned whether each Muse instance really runs its own Postgres). A few comments treated the technical disclosure admiringly (simonpure found a 332MB Rust binary). noelwelsh joked about SOUL.md being empty.27:T992,Artificial Analysis published detailed analysis of Claude Opus 5.5's "max" reasoning mode, which scores 58 on their composite Intelligence Index—ranking #1 among 212 comparable models. The model costs $4.00 per million input tokens and $20.00 per million output tokens, placing it at #93 for cost-efficiency. It has a 1M token context window, supports text+image input, and generated 260M output tokens during testing (notably verbose at 3x the median of 88M). The site compares it favorably to competitors like GPT-6, Fable, and Grok while noting it's more verbose and expensive than alternatives in its price tier.

Significant comment pushback emerged. Multiple users flagged the opening claim that the model is "somewhat expensive when comparing to other models of similar price" as nonsensical—cost relative to similar-cost peers tells you nothing. Users like Knork-and-Fife and khalic called out this circular reasoning. A deeper critique came from dverlaeckt80 and others questioning whether benchmarks remain meaningful given that models are trained specifically to excel at them, and from qsort noting the index rated Opus 5 (widely considered poor) above Astra, suggesting the scores lack credibility.

Real-world usage reports were mixed. User simonwillison noted the max reasoning mode ran out of tokens mid-thinking on simple SVG generation tasks twice, suggesting "max" may overthink to practical uselessness. linuxrebe1 and others reported that Opus 4.8 remains superior at instruction-following and task completion versus Opus 5, with Opus 5 tending to lose focus mid-task. dogscatstrees praised 5.5's output style and verbosity as improvements over Opus 5. mchusma suggested the "high" setting may be the practical sweet-spot rather than max, outperforming Fable with better benchmark plateauing.

breckenedge raised a critical concern: whether provider benchmark regression happens post-launch, noting a personal finding that one model's performance had regressed after a few weeks. cmiles8 argued the wider pattern is commodity-like—proprietary models at 100x cost vs. open-weight alternatives, echoing historical "good enough beats best" dynamics. bkishan speculated the quiet release may be timed before Astra's public launch. The verdict leans toward skepticism of both the index methodology and practical utility of the max reasoning mode, with experienced users preferring 4.8 or investigating high-setting alternatives.28:T9c3,Linear's engineering team tackled CI as a bottleneck driven by AI-accelerated development, where agents ship code much faster than CI can validate. They reduced PR wait time from 6+ minutes to just over 5 minutes and cut per-test runner time roughly in half despite tests quadrupling.

Four optimization categories: (1) Infrastructure—moving from GitHub Actions to third-party runners with better hardware dropped job duration 34% on average (tsc 52%), and switching to tsgo's native TypeScript compiler cut typechecking 73%. (2) Critical path—change-detection jobs dropped from 26s median to 8s by capping fetch depth and removing unnecessary checkouts; made checkout resilient to network hangs via custom composite action with retry logic. (3) Setup reduction—preinstalling dependencies in CI images (saving 7-8s per Postgres install), restricting pnpm install to only needed packages (44-73s down to 16-18s), and snapshot-loading database schema instead of replaying migrations (12s to 1-2s). (4) Test efficiency—splitting large test files for better work distribution across 8 shards instead of 3-4, and introducing optional module state sharing in Vitest (isolate: false) achieved 17% monthly savings by avoiding redundant entity graph rebuilds, though with explicit opt-in and teardown guardrails since agents now write most tests.

Setup optimizations made aggressive sharding viable: 8 shards with ~40s setup now use less total setup time than 4 shards at 110-140s did previously. They added 2,000 tests per week.

HN discourse split: several commenters questioned whether test quantity yields proportional value—one asked if quadrupled tests provide four times value, another suspects AI-generated tests are boilerplate-heavy with low assertion coverage. Others felt the real problem is inefficient human testing and product validation, not CI speed. CharlieDigital suggested agents would benefit from smaller, isolated services with contract-oriented boundaries rather than monoliths. Self-hosting advocates cited cost savings (from $100+/month cloud to near-zero) and reliability gains versus GitHub Actions degradation. Some pointed to Bazel's aggressive caching (10s warm builds) and questioned why build/test aren't unified under a single scheduler. One comment linked Dagger's "Great CI Bottleneck of 2026" framing. Skeptics noted that unless CI improvements boost net income, they're theater; another warned that fixing CI just pushes the bottleneck to deploy and rollback.29:Tc30,The article explores the competitive dynamics between OpenAI and TypeSafe's Jev, a classification-focused model that achieved unusually fast adoption on Vercel's AI Gateway. Author John Berryman argues OpenAI lacks architectural barriers to replication because Jev appears to use conventional LLM architecture—extracting probability distributions over tokens (logits) and normalizing them for classification. He demonstrates OpenAI's existing implicit classifier infrastructure through tool-calling examples, showing how the model's token probability decisions already perform micro-classifications.

Berryman's key thesis: OpenAI could not only copy Jev but integrate classification into their flagship models via syntax like <prediction> tags, allowing models to self-check reasoning, make safety judgments, route tasks between models, and trigger early stopping—all without leaving GPU. He theorizes this would enhance reasoning accuracy and reduce hallucination compared to text-based confidence statements. The article identifies TypeSafe's potential moat as their training data and reinforcement learning methodology, not architecture.

The HN comment section largely dismisses the article's framing. Orbital-decay opens by noting major labs already maintain extensive internal classifiers for inference pipelines and data work—this is neither new nor necessarily marketable. Prodigycorp criticizes the piece as overly OpenAI-focused with outdated references, arguing "moat talk" projects illusory engagement when the real question should be whether Jev nailed the interface.

Andy12_ introduces a key technical counterargument: OpenAI is investing heavily in reasoning + RL (o1-style models), which directly conflicts with Jev's fast, non-reasoning design philosophy. Adding reasoning layers would eliminate Jev's speed/cost advantage, making conventional LLMs more sensible.

Other notable criticism: Rdevsrex highlights Jev's non-OpenAI status as itself a moat (less risk of work theft). Zergrush notes open-source alternatives exist and TypeSafe's rational play is front-running releases until acquisition. Nullbio reports open-weight Jev clones matching performance emerged within 24 hours. Prometheus1992 argues no business case exists given free local alternatives. Several commenters (drivebyhooting, janalsncm) position this as rediscovery of existing ML fundamentals—reading logits, zero-shot classification (citing BART)—rather than novelty.

Rasmus1610 defends TypeSafe by noting the article underplays their actual focus: post-training data and RLCD (reinforcement learning from calibrated data), not architecture. AMLuto provides technical nuance: logit probabilities estimate next-token frequencies under the training distribution, not genuine calibrated probabilities about claims, especially post-reasoning.

Consensus is skeptical: OpenAI could replicate if desired, but many doubt they will prioritize this given reasoning-model trajectory. The article's moat analysis is seen as superficial—the discussion feels focused on competitive dynamics rather than actual technical barriers.2a:Tbd6,Trail of Bits argues SAML is fundamentally broken by design and should be deprecated for OIDC. The post traces SAML's origin to 2002 as a merger of four competing XML-based security protocols, born from academic SSO needs and raised in corporate IT. It identifies five fatal flaws:

First, XML itself brings unnecessary complexity compared to JSON—tags, elements, attributes, comments, namespaces, CDATA, DOCTYPEs. This creates a playground for XXE, entity expansion, DTD retrieval, and injection attacks before touching SAML logic itself.

Second, canonicalization (C14N) for computing consistent hashes of XML creates parser differential and round-trip bugs. Kelby Ludwig's XML comment bypass (2018) exploited this, and recent 2025 papers document continued vulnerabilities (Go stdlib, libxml2 quirks on GitHub Enterprise, generic parser differentials).

Third, enveloped signatures embed the signature inside the data being signed—fundamentally harder to validate byte-for-byte compared to JWT's detached signature design.

Fourth, "kitchen-sink" design via committee resulted in ~90% of SAML specs never being used in real deployments, adding complexity for largely unused features.

Fifth, ossification: SAML assumes non-direct network topology (artifact binding) from its VPN-era origins, whereas OIDC assumes direct OP/RP communication, letting HTTPS handle encryption. SAML also failed to anticipate mobile, SPAs, and IoT.

The author, who worked on Duo's SAML-based Access Gateway built on simpleSAMLphp, argues simpleSAMLphp's security resilience to XSW attacks (circa 2012) was anomalous. The recommended path: SPs should support only OIDC (Fly.io, Tailscale already do), IdPs should deprecate SAML gradually. OIDC grew organically (JOSE stack 2015, PKCE 2015, DPoP 2023) solving specific problems rather than anticipating all needs upfront.

Comments add crucial context: One poster notes libxmlsec would accept HMAC validation from attacker-controlled documents and check signatures against web PKI using TLS keys—basic implementation disasters. The "design by committee" criticism resonates (compared to WireGuard vs OpenVPN, OSI vs IP). However, several commenters argue the article understates OIDC's problems—JWT algorithm confusion, "none" algorithm attacks, missing audience checks—and omits SAML's real advantage for enterprises: IdP-initiated flows and security baked into payloads (vs OIDC's reliance on HTTPS). One notes OIDC cannot operate with private-network IdPs, where SAML succeeds. Debate emerges over whether the protocol or implementations are to blame; one argues XML parsing inconsistencies across languages are the real culprit, not XML per se. The migration path looks real—Thomas Ptacek (quoted extensively) recommends vendors reject any SAML message shape diverging from Okta/Onelogin/Google/Shibboleth standards. Consensus tilts toward "SAML is terrible but OIDC adoption is slow because enterprises need IdP-initiated flows and both protocols have distinct security trade-offs."2b:T91a,California's Project Nexus tested three solar panel configurations over Turlock Irrigation District's 4,000 miles of open canals. The initiative, developed by Solar Aquagrid founders Jordan Harris and Robin Raj, promised a dual benefit: generating renewable energy while shading canals to reduce evaporation (UC Davis projects California's water supply could shrink 25% by 2050) and algal growth. The $20M state-funded pilot produced observable results: measurable reduction in algae on shaded sections, improved water quality, and 1.7MW of electricity generation. UC Merced researcher Roger Bales calculated that covering 100 miles of narrow canals could save water equivalent to 2,700 households' annual consumption and generate 330MW; wide canals could save 11,000 households' worth and generate 1,400MW.

The article emphasized institutional benefits: California permitting requires 621 days for undeveloped land versus 110 days for developed land, and many canal-adjacent areas lack grid infrastructure. Turlock Irrigation District proved ideal since it manages both water and power delivery. The project isn't universally scalable—Contra Costa County's urban canal system (running through backyards and parks) rejected the approach, choosing to pipe canals instead.

HN commentary exposed serious economic criticism. Commenter sagarm calculated the per-watt cost at $10/W (from $20M for 1.7MW), roughly 10x higher than recent California utility-scale solar installations at $1/W. Multiple commenters questioned whether the permitting time-savings justified the structural complexity: you could build cheaper shade structures separate from solar panels, use less copper wiring, and avoid the massive steel supports visible in photos. CephalopodMD noted an omitted efficiency benefit: cooler water improves panel performance versus desert deployment. Mlmonkey credited Gujarat's 2012 pioneering of this technology. Other commenters raised unaddressed concerns: chemical leaching risks, photovoltaic recycling, environmental impact of the original canal systems on groundwater recharge, and whether seasonal agricultural consumption (spinach in January) rather than infrastructure was the real water problem. The commenter consensus: good science, terrible ROI; permitting arbitrage, not engineering elegance, drove adoption.2c:T84c,GrapheneOS team announced strong probability of devices shipping with GrapheneOS preinstalled by 2027, with details emerging about Motorola involvement. Crucially, these preinstalled versions won't eliminate DIY installation—the existing simple web-based process for Pixels will remain viable. Devices won't ship directly from Motorola's official channels but through a third-party distributor, partly because Motorola's GMS (Google Mobile Services) certification contracts likely prevent them from shipping non-standard Android builds themselves.

The HN comment section surfaced several practical blockers. Banking app compatibility emerged as the dominant concern, with multiple users noting that major financial institutions detect GrapheneOS and refuse to run apps, though workarounds involving Google package installation exist (with no guarantee of longevity). Corporate BYOD policies face similar issues. Pricing remains a sticking point—current GrapheneOS-compatible flagships cost substantially more than comparable mainstream phones, and users repeatedly requested sub-$200 or €200 entry-level options that don't exist.

A tension between security and repairability dominated discussion. GrapheneOS appeals to privacy-focused users who want escape from Google, but the hardware tradeoffs (screen glue, soldered components, locked bootloaders for security) conflict with right-to-repair advocates. One user sarcastically noted wanting a fully open device with removable battery, SD card, 3.5mm jack—effectively a 2016 phone.

Skepticism about the announcement's impact ran deep. Some argued preinstallation solves nothing if Google's control mechanisms remain (Motorola still operates under GMS contracts). Others dismissed it as too little, too late given the ecosystem fragmentation. One comment noted that cracking down on sideloading naturally pushed users toward preinstalled alternatives, suggesting this was predictable outcome rather than genuine breakthrough. A few questioned whether preinstalled devices would still trigger "rooted" flags in security-sensitive apps like Microsoft Authenticator.2d:T7af,A Reddit sysadmin reported that when cancelling their Grammarly organization account, the service sent warning notifications directly to all users about the impending access loss, apparently designed to trigger employee backlash against the admin decision. The post title frames this as "unhinged" behavior.

The comment section reveals broader context about Grammarly's declining relevance. Several users note the product has deteriorated since the LLM boom—it now makes aggressive sentence replacements that feel arbitrary rather than grammatically defensible, inject bias, and replace entire sentences unpredictably. One user with dyslexia, once a power user, stopped logging in because they no longer trusted the suggestions came from actual grammar rule verification.

Commenters view Grammarly as caught in a existential squeeze. Native speakers and AI advocates argue Gmail's email suggestions and general LLM tools have commoditized Grammarly's core value. The product feels redundant when generative AI can draft entire emails and ChatGPT-era tools are more integrated into daily workflows.

The direct-to-user notification tactic itself generated mixed reactions. Some see it as standard B2B2C behavior—if procurement kills a tool employees rely on without transparency, users deserve notice. Others view it as disrespectful manipulation. One commenter compared it to ClickUp's persistent "upgrade" spam, another to Slack's threatening payment-failure messages.

Privacy concerns compound the reputation damage. Multiple comments reference Grammaly's browser extension logging keystrokes across private messages and cloud infrastructure that exfiltrates data. One comment sarcastically wished the company would threaten to expose compromising messages. The prevailing sentiment is that Grammarly is in free fall: desperate, losing market share to better-integrated AI, and resorting to aggressive churn-reduction tactics that only highlight its decline.2e:Tcf8,Anthropic introduced Claude Opus 5.5 on September 22, 2026, positioning it as the new flagship model. The headline promise is stark: it reaches Fable 5.1 performance levels while consuming 40% less compute. Real-world examples from early testers show dramatic efficiency wins—one user completed a 680,000-line code migration in under a day (previously weeks of team work); another audited a 200,000-line codebase in three hours versus Opus 5's 20-plus hours. Opus 5.5 generates output over 30% faster than Opus 5.

Pricing reflects the efficiency. Input tokens drop from $5 to $4 per million, outputs from $25 to $20. Most notably, cache reads plummet to $0.20 from $0.50 per million—a 60% reduction that directly targets agentic and coding workloads where cache dominates costs. Opus 5.5 also matches or beats Opus 5 at default effort levels on benchmarks where Opus 5 required max effort, deepening the cost advantage.

On benchmarks, Opus 5.5 leads on agentic coding (Terminal-Bench 4.0: 66.4% vs Fable 5.1's 55.8%, vs Opus 5's 52.3%), computer use (OSWorld 2.0: 81.8% partial), and knowledge work (GDPval-AA: 1846 Elo vs 1735). Anthropic acknowledges that at frontier capabilities, benchmark margins are noisy and real-world performance gaps are narrower. Coding work shows the most compelling win: on FrontierCode, Opus 5.5 beats GPT-6 Astra (OpenAI's model) for roughly 20% of the cost.

Safety received heavy emphasis. Opus 5.5 scored best-ever on Anthropic's automated behavioral audit across thousands of simulated scenarios, is more resistant to prompt injection (matching or beating Opus 5 in all tested settings), and is less likely to take hard-to-reverse actions or exceed boundaries. Because it approaches Fable 5.1 capability in biology and cybersecurity, it carries safeguards from that tier—verified organizations can apply for life sciences and cybersecurity verification programs.

Communication quality improved markedly over Opus 5. Early testers praised it for writing more naturally, putting critical information first, and avoiding verbose or jargon-heavy explanations. Anthropic shows side-by-side examples: on a bug explanation, Opus 5 dumps technical details; Opus 5.5 leads with the root cause and context. One tester said it "writes the way I do."

Customer testimonials underscore efficiency gains. GitHub reported fewer steps and tokens on terminal tasks in VS Code. Clio noted an 18-hour autonomous task that stayed focused with minimal rework. Optiver reported 40–50% cost reduction on agentic coding tasks while matching Opus 5's quality, plus highest-ever scores on their trading-support suite. Quantium and Spotify confirmed token efficiency and faster completion. Column and Kiro highlighted better delegation and fewer tool calls.

The HN comment from sidrag22 is revealing: they called Opus 5 "by far the worst release of 2026" from both major labs, too immature for general public use, forcing them back to Opus 4.8 (May 2026) for months. They deem 5.5 a redemption, finally making the $20 Pro tier worthwhile. The other visible comment (tomhow) merely notes discussion moved to another thread. The modest comment count (2) and 273 points suggest measured reception—interest but not euphoria, possibly dampened by lukewarm sentiment toward Opus 5 still fresh in memory.2f:T6e0,The linked page was unavailable, but the HN discussion reveals AMD's RDRAND instruction has a bug on certain Zen processors where 16-bit reads cannot produce the value 0x0000. A user tested thousands of draws and found zero never appeared, though 32-bit reads appear unaffected. The original post was on a Zen 2 CPU (Ryzen 7, likely 4800HS based on context).

This isn't the first RDRAND issue on Zen. One commenter recalled a previous bug where RDRAND always returned all 1s (0xFFFF), which was fixed via microcode update around 2019. Another user reproduced the 16-bit zero-skipping issue on their Ryzen 5 3600 Zen 2. A Zen 3 user reported getting normal distribution of zeros, suggesting it may have been fixed in later generations. A Phoronix article from 2019 documented earlier RDRAND failures on Zen 2 that required BIOS updates.

The practical impact appears limited since cryptographic code shouldn't rely on raw RDRAND output anyway—best practice is to seed a CSPRNG with RDRAND combined with other entropy sources, or use XOF functions that blend multiple randomness sources. One user mentioned catching a similar statistical anomaly in a KDF only by histogramming output; standard statistical tests didn't flag it.

Some commenters questioned whether the issue matters, noting modulo operations and normal usage patterns might mask it. Others suggested possible explanations like intentional zero-skipping for security reasons, though that would be mathematically unsound. The hex sequence effect (never producing 0) resembles known flaws in simple PRNGs like 32-bit XORshift.

The consensus is this is embarrassing but manageable—it requires awareness of which microcode versions are affected and proper RNG layering in security-critical code.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-23 16:26 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-23 16:26 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":1}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","id":49803892,"rank":1,"title":"Claude Opus 5.5","url":"https://www.anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","domain":"anthropic.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49803892","by":"km144","score":1688,"commentCount":1031,"time":1790094545000,"short":"Anthropic released Claude Opus 5.5, the leading model in its new 5.5 family. It matches Fable 5.1 performance on most tasks while costing 40% less than Opus 5, with 30% faster output generation. Key improvements: superior agentic coding and knowledge work, stronger alignment testing (best behavioral audit scores to date), better natural communication with clearer writing, and 60% cheaper cache reads. Pricing: $4/$20 per million tokens (input/output), down from $5/$25. HN commenters were mostly…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:44.062Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-6-sol-and-luna","id":49805509,"rank":2,"title":"GPT-6 Sol and Luna","url":"https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-6-sol-and-luna/","domain":"openai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49805509","by":"OfficialTurkey","score":1666,"commentCount":800,"time":1790100034000,"short":"OpenAI released GPT-6 Sol and Luna, cost-reduced models using Astra training methods. Sol ($2/$10 per M tokens) and Luna ($0.10/$0.50) are 50% cheaper than their 5.6 versions while improving on professional work, coding, factuality, and computer use benchmarks. Sol matches competitor flagship models at fraction of cost; Luna becomes almost free. Comments praise value but debate whether Luna/Sol are truly improved or repackaged with more reasoning applied; some prefer Claude for design and UX…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:32.750Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/mimo-v2-6","id":49792730,"rank":3,"title":"MiMo v2.6","url":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/mimo-v2-6","domain":"mimo.xiaomi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792730","by":"volf_","score":1114,"commentCount":475,"time":1790021532000,"short":"Xiaomi released MiMo v2.6, offering Flash (15B activated) and Pro (42B activated) variants with competitive pricing. Comments praise Xiaomi's training transparency and real-time dashboards, debate whether Chinese models will dominate due to energy advantages, and report mixed real-world performance—strong on some benchmarks but slower and more prone to overthinking than Grok or Astra on image-to-HTML tasks. Concerns raised about API reliability and data privacy when using their hosting.","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:06.196Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.colinbreck.com/i-dont-want-to-read-what-you-didnt-write","id":49794330,"rank":4,"title":"I don't want to read what you didn't write","url":"https://blog.colinbreck.com/i-dont-want-to-read-what-you-didnt-write/","domain":"blog.colinbreck.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49794330","by":"mooreds","score":1029,"commentCount":449,"time":1790029841000,"short":"Colin Breck argues AI-written text is unreadable and exhausting—summarizing design decisions without context, losing author voice and nuance. He used AI effectively for his academic paper only for editing, verification, and tedious tasks like citations, never for original prose. HN commenters largely agree but split on whether imperfect human writing beats generic AI output, with some defending AI as useful for non-writers and others finding the piece self-contradictory or ironically…","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:44.354Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://dbushell.com/2026/09/22/apple-intelligence","id":49797982,"rank":5,"title":"I said no and Apple said yes","url":"https://dbushell.com/2026/09/22/apple-intelligence/","domain":"dbushell.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49797982","by":"thatslast","score":845,"commentCount":682,"time":1790064295000,"short":"Developer discovers macOS 15.3 enabled Apple Intelligence sending data home every 15 minutes despite user disabling it. After upgrading to macOS 27, Apple removed the opt-out entirely, forcing the feature and consuming 22GB of disk space. Comments note the core factual claim about 15-minute phoning is wrong—that setting only controls transparency reporting—but broader complaint about removed toggles and aggressive AI enablement despite explicit user refusal resonates widely.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:56.950Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bloomberg.com/graphics/2026-iran-school-attack","id":49806430,"rank":6,"title":"Pentagon says overreliance on AI contributed to missile strike on Iran school","url":"https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2026-iran-school-attack/","domain":"bloomberg.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49806430","by":"devonnull","score":818,"commentCount":435,"time":1790103818000,"short":"Pentagon report on 2026 Iran school strike killing 123 children concludes AI (Maven/Palantir) was scapegoat for human failures: outdated intelligence never updated in database, target-vetting team was gutted and never consulted, White House pressure for 1000 targets bypassed due diligence. HN emphasizes accountability lies with decision-makers, not AI, while debating whether comparison to human error rates matters.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:24.741Z","age":"21 hours ago"},{"key":"https://techradar.com/phones/iphone/i-wish-apple-would-just-stop-that-crap-apple-has-added-persistent-ads-to-ios-and-its-driving-users-crazy","id":49801939,"rank":7,"title":"Apple has added persistent 'ads' to iOS, and it's driving users crazy","url":"https://www.techradar.com/phones/iphone/i-wish-apple-would-just-stop-that-crap-apple-has-added-persistent-ads-to-ios-and-its-driving-users-crazy","domain":"techradar.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49801939","by":"MC995","score":766,"commentCount":563,"time":1790087412000,"short":"Apple inserted persistent promotional banners in iOS Settings for iCloud+, Apple Music, and AppleCare+. Many can't be dismissed and stay for weeks, leaving permanent notification badges. Users are furious, comparing it to Microsoft's Start menu ads. HN comments split between those seeing this as minor (they're just internal promotions) versus those viewing it as enshittification of a premium product that once rejected ads entirely.","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:25:06.765Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://404media.co/we-hacked-the-fbi-hackers-say-they-have-data-on-all-fbi-employees","id":49805278,"rank":8,"title":"'We hacked the FBI:' Hackers say they have data on all FBI employees","url":"https://www.404media.co/we-hacked-the-fbi-hackers-say-they-have-data-on-all-fbi-employees/","domain":"404media.co","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49805278","by":"spenvo","score":739,"commentCount":535,"time":1790099162000,"short":"ShinyHunters hackers claim they breached FBI systems and stole data on all FBI employees and applicants, including names, home addresses, phone numbers, and spouse information. 404 Media verified a sample of 5,000 records. Comments suggest the breach likely exploited an Oracle PeopleSoft zero-day vulnerability, and note this type of massive government data breach has become almost routine rather than shocking.","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:33.113Z","age":"23 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cryptocellar.org/bgac/the-mvueh-break.html","id":49801324,"rank":9,"title":"OpenAI GPT–6 Astra breaks Enigma message that has resisted solution since 2005","url":"https://www.cryptocellar.org/bgac/the-mvueh-break.html","domain":"cryptocellar.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49801324","by":"sohkamyung","score":705,"commentCount":415,"time":1790085135000,"short":"GPT-6 Astra claims to have autonomously broken a 1941 Wehrmacht Enigma message (MVUEH) that resisted cryptanalysis since 2005. Comments suggest the narrative oversells the AI's role: Astra used existing Enigma simulator/Bombe software, tried known cribbing techniques, and needed human direction. The core discovery—that the message used an anomalous key and had transcription errors—is genuine, but attributing this to AI autonomy rather than guided tool use misrepresents what happened.","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:28.060Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://brand.io/article/spymarks","id":49794615,"rank":10,"title":"Spymarks, not Watermarks","url":"https://brand.io/article/spymarks/","domain":"brand.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49794615","by":"possibilistic","score":674,"commentCount":165,"time":1790031829000,"short":"Article argues invisible tracking signals embedded in media (Google SynthID, audio watermarks, text steering) should be called \"spymarks\" not \"watermarks\" to clarify privacy risks. Comments note this is steganography with tracking; debate whether the term is necessary since watermarking already covered this; discuss practical defenses (re-compression, re-encoding, text copying) and risks to whistleblowers; some argue the technology can be net-positive for detecting AI-generated content.","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:41.179Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://poloclub.github.io/transformer-explainer","id":49792342,"rank":11,"title":"Transformers Explained Visually","url":"https://poloclub.github.io/transformer-explainer/","domain":"poloclub.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792342","by":"aray07","score":623,"commentCount":88,"time":1790019829000,"short":"Interactive browser-based visualization of GPT-2 transformer architecture running live ONNX model in JavaScript. Covers tokenization, embeddings, multi-head attention, MLPs, and token sampling with adjustable temperature/top-k/top-p parameters. Comments praise the intuitive design but note it uses dated GPT-2 absolute positional encoding, the QKV mechanisms deserve more upfront explanation, and the page is RAM-intensive.","long":"$1c","gem":true,"gemReason":"Live interactive visualization of transformer internals with real GPT-2 inference…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T08:30:37.522Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://x.ai/news/grok-4-7","id":49788838,"rank":12,"title":"Grok 4.7","url":"https://x.ai/news/grok-4-7","domain":"x.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49788838","by":"meetpateltech","score":603,"commentCount":520,"time":1790005815000,"short":"xAI released Grok 4.7, a larger model with 40% more weights than 4.6 but same pricing ($2/$6 per million tokens). Benchmarks show modest gains on coding tasks (CursorBench 46.3% vs 4.6's 40.4%), stronger safety refusals, and improved document work. HN users note significant token bloat (240M output tokens for barely 2% improvement), express skepticism about real-world utility versus marketing, and flag deceptive cache pricing hiding higher per-operation costs for agentic workflows.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:08.762Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://nobodywho.ai/posts/jev-in-25-lines","id":49812769,"rank":13,"title":"Jev in 25 Lines of Python","url":"https://www.nobodywho.ai/posts/jev-in-25-lines/","domain":"nobodywho.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49812769","by":"bashbjorn","score":470,"commentCount":140,"time":1790148383000,"short":"A parody post showing that Jev (DeepSeek's classification model) is just extracting logits from a small model like Qwen-3 0.6B and computing probabilities across choice tokens. The author argues it's not a revolutionary AI paradigm shift—just classification via logit inspection. Comments debate whether this actually replicates Jev's architecture and calibration, with experts noting it misses the point: chat models may produce different probability distributions than task-trained classifiers…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T16:26:18.862Z","age":"9 hours ago"},{"key":"https://science.org/content/article/nasa-s-mars-sample-return-mission-dead","id":49791939,"rank":14,"title":"NASA’s Mars Sample Return mission is dead","url":"https://www.science.org/content/article/nasa-s-mars-sample-return-mission-dead","domain":"science.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49791939","by":"Muhammad523","score":447,"commentCount":384,"time":1790018052000,"short":"NASA cancelled its Mars Sample Return mission after costs ballooned to $11B with samples not returning until 2040. Comments split: critics say JPL designed an inefficient, bloated program maximizing complexity and jobs rather than science; defenders argue cancelling this specific architecture allows pivoting toward cheaper, modular missions using commercial providers and Starship. China's competing 2028 sample return and cheaper launch alternatives make the old plan obsolete.","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:16.006Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://twitter.com/Lon/status/2101793422487204027","id":49789224,"rank":15,"title":"Fable 5 – Median thinking declined in August","url":"https://twitter.com/Lon/status/2101793422487204027","domain":"twitter.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49789224","by":"espeed","score":423,"commentCount":292,"time":1790007237000,"short":"A user reported that Claude Fable 5's performance degraded significantly in August after Anthropic made it permanently available on subscriptions, measured via five different methods showing fewer thinking tokens. The core finding: not a model \"nerf\" but changes to inference regimes served to users. HN comments split between users confirming anecdotal quality drops over weeks, skeptics questioning methodology (workload vs. model changes), and deeper concerns about deliberately degrading…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:17.634Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://foxscript.org","id":49808023,"rank":16,"title":"Microsoft killed FoxPro in 2007. Anyway, here's FoxPro revived","url":"https://foxscript.org/","domain":"foxscript.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49808023","by":"boredjohnny","score":422,"commentCount":232,"time":1790110830000,"short":"FoxDev Studio revives Visual FoxPro by building a new 64-bit runtime in Rust/WebAssembly that runs existing VFP9 applications unchanged. It removes 32-bit limitations (2GB table caps), adds lambdas and HTTP servers, bridges old .fll add-ins through a 32-bit process, and passes 1,534 of 1,722 VFP language elements tested against the original. Comments reveal substantial production use: one firm runs 500K lines fueling a $500M business, others cite industries with $2B+ revenue still dependent on…","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T08:30:37.884Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://nathan.rs/posts/gzip-lm","id":49797323,"rank":17,"title":"Can gzip be a language model?","url":"https://nathan.rs/posts/gzip-lm/","domain":"nathan.rs","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49797323","by":"networked","score":395,"commentCount":155,"time":1790057319000,"short":"Nathan Barry demonstrates that gzip can function as a language model by leveraging compression-prediction equivalence: a compressor assigns probability to sequences implicitly, and those assigning higher probability compress better. By scoring byte-sequence candidates via compressed length and using beam search to avoid quantization noise, gzipt generates Shakespeare-like text primed on a corpus. HN consensus: clever demonstration of information theory, but commenters temper expectations—while…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:58.019Z","age":"34 hours ago"},{"key":"https://alexn.org/blog/2026/09/22/ai-has-no-wisdom-and-neither-will-you","id":49799965,"rank":18,"title":"AI Has No Wisdom and Neither Will You","url":"https://alexn.org/blog/2026/09/22/ai-has-no-wisdom-and-neither-will-you/","domain":"alexn.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49799965","by":"dimonomid","score":382,"commentCount":535,"time":1790079069000,"short":"Nedelcu argues AI cannot produce maintainable code because maintainability—lacking immediate measurable signals—cannot be optimized through reinforcement learning. AI learns from mediocre codebases and produces mediocre patterns; mastery requires the intuitive judgment experts build through suffering mistakes and learning consequences over months/years. He warns that developers relying on AI to write and read code will never reach mastery, predicting companies will eventually advertise \"NO-AI\"…","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:58.396Z","age":"28 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.szypowi.cz/p/claude-code-reads-agents.md-only-when-telemetry-is-on","id":49814947,"rank":19,"title":"Claude Code reads AGENTS.md only when telemetry is on [fixed]","url":"https://blog.szypowi.cz/p/claude-code-reads-agents.md-only-when-telemetry-is-on/","domain":"blog.szypowi.cz","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49814947","by":"pszypowicz","score":347,"commentCount":189,"time":1790165733000,"short":"Claude Code 2.1.277 added AGENTS.md support but gates it behind a remote feature flag that fails closed when telemetry is disabled, silently ignoring the file. Author measured the bug, documented it with a canary test, and provided a one-line CLAUDE.md workaround. An Anthropic engineer confirmed it was a rollout artifact and said v2.1.281 already fixes it.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T16:26:19.337Z","age":"4 hours ago"},{"key":"https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/turn-restrict-access-apple-intelligence-mchlb2e44f94/mac","id":49790409,"rank":20,"title":"Turn off and restrict access to Apple Intelligence features on Mac","url":"https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/turn-restrict-access-apple-intelligence-mchlb2e44f94/mac","domain":"support.apple.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49790409","by":"alwillis","score":345,"commentCount":222,"time":1790011821000,"short":"Apple's support page explains how to disable individual Apple Intelligence features scattered across Settings, Messages, Mail, Notifications, Phone, and Journal apps, plus a Screen Time killswitch. HN commenters universally frustrated: no global toggle, no way to reclaim disk space for unwanted models, features hidden in unintuitive locations, and user agency heavily eroded by default-enabled AI features.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T00:56:18.131Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mouse.dev/blog/muse-runtime-export","id":49802871,"rank":21,"title":"I asked Meta’s Muse for its filesystem and it sent me 6.8GB","url":"https://mouse.dev/blog/muse-runtime-export/","domain":"mouse.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49802871","by":"Aeroi","score":321,"commentCount":153,"time":1790090712000,"short":"A researcher asked Meta's Muse AI agent to export its visible filesystem to Google Drive and received 6.8GB of internal runtime files, documentation, SSH keys, and agent memory. The export included system files, 68 skill integrations, Spaces framework code, memory banks, and docs for an experimental Home Link ESP32 device bridge. Meta rejected the bug bounty submission as \"Not Applicable.\" HN consensus: mostly not a serious vulnerability since each user gets isolated containers, but Meta's…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:40.061Z","age":"25 hours ago"},{"key":"https://artificialanalysis.ai/models/claude-opus-5-5","id":49804316,"rank":22,"title":"Claude Opus 5.5 Intelligence, Performance and Price Analysis (Max)","url":"https://artificialanalysis.ai/models/claude-opus-5-5","domain":"artificialanalysis.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49804316","by":"theanonymousone","score":319,"commentCount":101,"time":1790095891000,"short":"Artificial Analysis rates Claude Opus 5.5 max reasoning variant #1 in intelligence (58 on their index) but \"somewhat expensive\" at $4/$20 per 1M tokens. HN users debate methodology—commenters note the \"expensive when similarly priced\" phrasing is meaningless, question whether benchmarks are gamed, report real-world frustrations with reasoning overshooting token limits, and suggest older Opus 4.8 remains superior for instruction-following. Consensus skeptical of inflated scores.","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T08:30:35.941Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://linear.app/now/ci-bottleneck-reworked","id":49792067,"rank":23,"title":"AI coding has made CI a bottleneck, so we reworked ours to keep up","url":"https://linear.app/now/ci-bottleneck-reworked","domain":"linear.app","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49792067","by":"julian_digital","score":311,"commentCount":398,"time":1790018613000,"short":"Linear cut CI run time from 6+ minutes to ~5 minutes and halved runner costs despite test suite quadrupling, through: migrating off GitHub Actions to third-party runners, eliminating TypeScript type-checking from linting, optimizing critical-path jobs (change detection, checkout), preinstalling dependencies, lazy-loading database schemas, and adding module state sharing in tests. HN comments question whether test quantity provides value, suggest monoliths hinder agents compared to smaller…","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-22T16:24:58.751Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://arcturus-labs.com/blog/2026/09/21/will-openai-eat-jevs-lunch","id":49802161,"rank":24,"title":"OpenAI is well positioned to fast-follow Jev","url":"https://arcturus-labs.com/blog/2026/09/21/will-openai-eat-jevs-lunch/","domain":"arcturus-labs.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49802161","by":"JohnBerryman","score":306,"commentCount":215,"time":1790088179000,"short":"Article argues OpenAI is well-positioned to fast-follow Jev (TypeSafe's classifier model) by replicating its training data and folding classification into their existing LLMs. The piece explores how OpenAI has implicitly used classifiers (via logprobs/tool calling) and could integrate explicit classification syntax into models for reasoning, safety checks, and task routing. HN consensus: unimpressed. Comments emphasize major labs already have internal classifiers, dismissing this as…","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T08:30:38.988Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.trailofbits.com/2026/09/21/saml-a-fractal-of-bad-design","id":49806335,"rank":25,"title":"SAML: A fractal of bad design","url":"https://blog.trailofbits.com/2026/09/21/saml-a-fractal-of-bad-design/","domain":"blog.trailofbits.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49806335","by":"aray07","score":305,"commentCount":158,"time":1790103437000,"short":"Trail of Bits argues SAML is fundamentally broken by design and should be deprecated for OIDC. Core issues: XML's inherent complexity, canonicalization bugs enabling signature bypasses, enveloped signatures conflating data and metadata, kitchen-sink \"design by committee\" bloat, and ossification making it inflexible for modern networks. Comments note OIDC has its own problems (JWT algorithm confusion), SAML still has enterprise advantages (IdP-initiated flows), and the real killer was poor…","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T16:26:26.451Z","age":"21 hours ago"},{"key":"https://kqed.org/science/2002033/heres-what-california-is-learning-from-solar-panels-built-over-irrigation-canals","id":49796379,"rank":26,"title":"What California is learning from solar panels built over irrigation canals","url":"https://www.kqed.org/science/2002033/heres-what-california-is-learning-from-solar-panels-built-over-irrigation-canals","domain":"kqed.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49796379","by":"Jtsummers","score":299,"commentCount":576,"time":1790046605000,"short":"California piloted solar panels over irrigation canals (Project Nexus in Turlock) to generate clean energy while reducing water evaporation and algae growth. A $20M state grant funded the project generating 1.7MW; UC Merced estimates 100 miles of panels could save water for 2,700-11,000 households and generate 330-1,400MW. HN commenters flagged massive cost issues: $10/watt versus $1/watt for utility-scale solar, questioned whether traditional shading would be cheaper, and noted permitting…","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T16:26:21.723Z","age":"37 hours ago"},{"key":"https://grapheneos.social/@GrapheneOS/117299954135808210","id":49804683,"rank":27,"title":"There's a high chance of devices being sold with GrapheneOS preinstalled in 2027","url":"https://grapheneos.social/@GrapheneOS/117299954135808210","domain":"grapheneos.social","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49804683","by":"Cider9986","score":295,"commentCount":131,"time":1790097171000,"short":"GrapheneOS announced high likelihood of preinstalled devices in 2027, likely Motorola models. Installation will remain DIY-friendly via existing Pixel tools. Comments debate practical concerns: banking app compatibility, device repairability vs. security tradeoffs, price points, and whether preinstalled variants solve Google's control issues or just redirect concerns to Motorola.","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T08:30:32.299Z","age":"23 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reddit.com/r/sysadmin/comments/1wjdpgx/psa_grammarly_will_send_unhinged_messages_to_all","id":49811484,"rank":28,"title":"Grammarly will send unhinged messages to all your users if you try to cancel","url":"https://www.reddit.com/r/sysadmin/comments/1wjdpgx/psa_grammarly_will_send_unhinged_messages_to_all/","domain":"reddit.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49811484","by":"ksec","score":292,"commentCount":87,"time":1790136043000,"short":"Reddit post reports Grammarly sent warning notifications to all users when an account was cancelled, bypassing sysadmins to appeal directly to employees. Comments note this is typical aggressive SaaS behavior, but Grammarly's reputation is already damaged by post-LLM pivots and privacy concerns. Many agree AI alternatives and Gmail integration have made it obsolete.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T16:26:26.981Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","id":49803863,"rank":29,"title":"Claude Opus 5.5","url":"https://www.anthropic.com/claude-opus-5-5","domain":"anthropic.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49803863","by":"throwaway371647","score":273,"commentCount":2,"time":1790094450000,"short":"Anthropic released Claude Opus 5.5, the leading model in its new 5.5 family. It matches Fable 5.1 performance on most tasks while costing 40% less than Opus 5, with 30% faster output generation. Key improvements: superior agentic coding and knowledge work, stronger alignment testing (best behavioral audit scores to date), better natural communication with clearer writing, and 60% cheaper cache reads. Pricing: $4/$20 per million tokens (input/output), down from $5/$25. HN commenters were mostly…","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T00:54:44.062Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://board.flatassembler.net/topic.php?t=24261","id":49798204,"rank":30,"title":"AMD's random number generator can't generate a 0?","url":"https://board.flatassembler.net/topic.php?t=24261","domain":"board.flatassembler.net","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49798204","by":"BruceEel","score":269,"commentCount":209,"time":1790066383000,"short":"AMD's RDRAND instruction on some Zen CPUs cannot generate 0x0000 for 16-bit values, discovered through statistical testing. Users report this affects 16-bit reads but not 32-bit, likely needs microcode fix. Comments note similar historical bugs were patched, though most argue direct hardware RNG output shouldn't be used cryptographically anyway.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-23T16:26:26.926Z","age":"32 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-23T08-30Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-23 08:30 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-24T00-56Z/","children":["2026-09-24 00:56 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-23 16:26 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
