1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-18T08-29Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-18T08-29Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-18T08-29Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:T91a,NVIDIA announced native GPU programming support in Rust with two complementary approaches. The SIMT track (cuda-oxide) provides a custom rustc codegen backend routing kernels through MIR, Pliron IR, and LLVM to PTX. The Tile track (cutile-rs) operates at a higher abstraction level, with the compiler deciding thread mapping and memory layout through JIT compilation via CUDA Tile IR. Both enforce compile-time memory safety: cuda-oxide uses DisjointSlice and launch contracts to prevent aliasing; cutile-rs uses tensor partitioning and Rust ownership semantics to guarantee exclusive access. The SIMT track requires a pinned nightly toolchain, Linux, CUDA 12.x+, and system LLVM, while Tile runs on stable Rust 1.89+ with only CUDA 13.3. cutile-rs is on crates.io and proven in production (HuggingFace Grout, mistral.rs); cuda-oxide remains early alpha. NVIDIA plans inter-language interoperability between CUDA Rust, C++, and Python. The announcement includes runnable examples: vector addition in both styles, demonstrating identical functionality but different programming models.

Comments reveal strong skepticism alongside interest. A major criticism concerns the blog's tone: multiple commenters noted it reads like Claude-generated content rather than NVIDIA's typical technical style, raising broader concerns about AI-written documentation credibility. Some dismissed this as marketing fluff ("AI slop"). Technical concerns centered on: the nightly toolchain requirement for SIMT limiting adoption; vendor lock-in risks and ifdef complexity when mixing CUDA with other code; incomplete tooling for diagnosing multi-layer failures (Rust/cuda-oxide/CUDA/Tile stack); and Linux-only support. One commenter questioned why the two tracks were already inconsistent in the starter examples (a,b,c vs z,x,y). Defenders noted the value of compile-time race prevention and welcomed the direction as raising GPU programming reliability. Several mentioned existing alternatives (rust-gpu, rust-cuda, Triton) and one suggested this was mainly NVIDIA wrapping vendor ecosystem tighter. A contrasting note: one commenter felt motivated by knowing LLMs hadn't been trained on this yet. Practical feedback included requests for non-Linux support, async support, and comparison to similar frameworks like Metal and VectorWare's approach.13:T975,EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced backing for a new "associate member" status for Canada at her State of the Union address, framing it as partnership for "common strength" rather than against any third party. Canadian PM Mark Carney, attending the speech, had previously sought a "unique alliance" with Europe following collapsed US trade talks and Trump's tariff threats. Von der Leyen cited shared interests in AI, climate change, defense, critical minerals, and commitment to democracy. No details on implementation were provided, though the process could take years to complete.

The article notes that "associate membership" is legally novel for the EU despite existing treaty provisions (Article 217 TFEU) allowing "association agreements" with non-members like Turkey. Some EU members haven't even ratified the Canada FTA struck a decade ago, and several prefer building on existing arrangements rather than creating new membership categories.

Comments reveal several important contexts. One commenter correctly points out that Article 217 TFEU already permits exactly this type of arrangement—multiple current EU members had "associate member" status before joining, and the 1970s-80s terminology is simply forgotten. Another notes the timing is strategic posturing: Carney is using EU interest as leverage in negotiations with Trump. A third highlights that EU credibility on trade deals is questioned, referencing a Canadian trade minister's emotional frustration that "Europe is not capable of signing a trade deal," plus the EU's own ongoing failures to ratify the Canada FTA. Commenters also worry about EU consensus-building difficulties (Hungary blocked Ukraine support measures) and note that even completed deals like EU-Mercosur face implementation delays. Others see broader geopolitical realignment: middle-power democracies (Canada, Australia, NZ, UK, possibly Japan/Korea) aligning away from a chaotic US under Trump, with potential broader coalition-building across the democratic world. A few expressed concern about EU protectionism being worse than the US, contradicting the symbolic appeal. One noted the irony that Canada had a working USMCA/NAFTA deal that Trump is destroying through arbitrary tariffs already ruled illegal. An accurate correction clarified Norway's relationship to the EU as a relevant precedent already demonstrating this form of association works.14:T8af,The article demonstrates training a 4B parameter model (Qwen) via supervised fine-tuning on GPT-6 Astra trajectories, then agentic RL (GRPO variant) using execution time as reward signal. The model went from unable to produce valid plans for 99/113 queries to achieving 44.7% latency reduction. The author built infrastructure to minimize page cache noise in concurrent Postgres containers and split training across 2x H100s. Highlights include careful RL reward design, off-policy distillation from closed-model trajectories, and LoRA adaptation.

Comments surface critical limitations. The benchmark uses an 8GB dataset fitting entirely in memory with shared_buffers constrained, queries warmed before measurement, and read-only SELECTs only. Without proper indexes or column statistics, the baseline Postgres planner is deliberately handicapped—real deployments use statistics and indexes extensively. One commenter notes cardinality estimation failures are usually caused by bad statistics, and hints paper over the real problem (like LLMs would do).

The cost analysis reveals ~$1200 total investment ($800 compute + $400 API calls for training data), but the benchmarks appear to omit planning time itself. Real databases must plan fast enough to be amortized, especially with prepared statements. The article acknowledges distillation from closed models but doesn't address reproducibility or licensing concerns.

Fundamental concerns emerge about non-determinism: LLMs can hallucinate and miss valid indexes, producing incorrect or suboptimal plans unpredictably. Database systems require correctness guarantees and fast, online planning that tracks live statistics; this project optimizes static workloads offline. Several commenters suggest traditional ML or heuristic approaches (like join-order benchmark algorithms or alphago-style NNs) would be more suitable. One notes you can be 3x+ better than Postgres with conventional methods.

There's appreciation for the writing quality and technical depth, but skepticism about practical applicability. The sweet spot might be auto-optimizer platforms that generate hints from LLM suggestions for human review, but runtime safety and determinism remain unresolved.15:T8e2,The post argues that daily productivity heavily depends on accumulated small knowledge bits: language features, debugging techniques, CLI incantations, and domain-specific insights. Examples span SQL (SELECT without FROM, EXPLAIN ANALYZE for optimization), shell history (fzf fuzzy search, atuin with SQLite), git (git log -S for pickaxe searching, git checkout -), regex (\b word boundaries), NodeJS (https.Agent connection pooling), and alternatives to standard tools (ripgrep over grep, glob patterns over find).

The author shares a workplace practice: sharing one trick daily on Slack (technical and company-specific) to avoid overwhelming people while ensuring high-value knowledge spreads. Company-specific examples include debugging data sources, who to ask about what, documentation locations, and operational procedures.

Key comment disagreements and additions: Several commenters note these aren't strictly "programming" tricks but CLI/shell/DevOps knowledge—one commenter argues the real issue is inefficient computer usage industry-wide. On adoption, phforms highlights a major barrier: people know tricks but don't use them because old habits require less friction; the solution is maintaining accessible documentation by tool/language and active reminders. kccqzy suggests learning from watching AI work as a source of tricks. titzer advocates for a personal ~/scratch.txt with aliases and bash utilities curated over time, lamenting skill erosion through tool migrations. disinterred and backend_dev82 contribute their own high-value tricks (zoxide for smart cd, fish with vi keybindings). overflowy shares zhist, a zsh history tool with more context than plain fzf. forty questions whether NodeJS agents work with fetch (suggesting an error in the original). NegativeLatency admits daily trick-sharing would feel annoying despite its value. computermadeofc worries that AI code generation (Copilot) diminishes the appeal of "sharpening the axe" and threatens loss of this knowledge. thebelal confirms they authored the per-directory-history project mentioned. Minor corrections include that EXPLAIN ANALYZE's effectiveness varies by database (rf15 notes IBM products have constraints), and some tools like find do far more than the post suggests (IsTom).16:T957,Hister is a personal search engine that indexes full-text content from pages you visit, browser history, local files, and crawled websites. It runs locally or on infrastructure you control, storing extracted content with offline previews so pages remain searchable even after deletion. The tool supports full-text and optional semantic search, offers a web interface, command-line access, and MCP (Model Context Protocol) integration for AI assistants. A browser extension for Firefox and Chrome automatically indexes visited pages. Installation is straightforward via binary download, Homebrew, Docker, or Nix.

The project emerged from the author (asciimoo, who created Searx) pivoting away from metasearch limitations. Key features include field filters, phrase queries, wildcards, negation, result priorities, multi-user support, and no mandatory cloud sync or telemetry.

HN comments revealed substantial enthusiasm and independent reinvention: multiple commenters described building nearly identical tools themselves without knowing Hister existed. Chrome offered this exact feature in 2008 called "Offline Browsing" with full-text indexing, removed in 2013 reportedly due to technical constraints—Hister resurrects that lost functionality. One user mentioned ChatGPT largely solved this problem for him by recalling articles from months past, though Hister provides a structured, permanent local alternative.

Early users report genuine utility. One deployed it for a month and uses it specifically when hunting through months of browser history; another indexed Obsidian notes for global search and built exclusion rules early on. A third has used it for two weeks with positive results. Requests in comments include: indexing visibility duration (ignore pages viewed <4 seconds), Android phone support, per-page note-taking, and integration with offline Wikipedia caches.

The project faces a legal issue: a registered US trademark holder has requested the name change. The author welcomes suggestions for short, pronounceable alternatives with available .org domains.

Concerns raised were minimal. One commenter worried about downloading unsigned binaries lacking Linux distribution review, a valid software supply chain concern. Another noted Zotero as related but distinct (research organization vs. search index). Design and implementation quality drew praise for the web UI.17:T953,Mistral and Mozilla partnership brings Firefox Smart Window, an AI-powered browsing assistant now live in France and North America. The feature helps users with complex searches, page summaries, tab memory retrieval, and context-aware assistance. Both companies emphasize open-source models, zero-data-retention policies (conversations not saved on Mozilla servers by default), and fine-tuning for regional languages, dialects, and cultural nuance. The announcement frames this as advancing open, private, sovereignty-focused AI distribution against walled-garden corporate alternatives.

However, the comment section reveals substantial skepticism about privacy claims. The core criticism: Firefox Smart Window sends browsing data to cloud servers (Mistral's infrastructure) rather than running locally, contradicting the "private" marketing. One commenter found a broken link in Mozilla's support page advertising "Mistral Small 4" but linking to OpenAI's gpt-oss-120b model card. Multiple threads stress that cloud inference, regardless of stated data-retention policies, is not private—users cannot verify Mozilla's or Mistral's actual practices, contractual obligations get breached, and data could be subpoenaed. The announcement buries these details across multiple links rather than clearly stating upfront whether inference is local or cloud-based.

Comparisons to Chrome's Gemini Nano (local, on-device) and Apple's on-device approach frame Mozilla's decision as a step backward for privacy advocates. Several commenters note the irony: Mistral and Mozilla both position themselves as open-source and privacy-conscious, yet are following the cloud-inference playbook. One commenter points out that small models are now capable enough for on-device summarization and translation, making cloud forwarding unnecessary. The announcement is seen by some as either marketing obfuscation or a fundamental misalignment with stated privacy values. A few commenters also note Mozilla's broader reputation struggles (recent executive departures, ethics concerns) and Mistral's recent partnerships (Cloudera), adding context to skepticism. One user discovered you can use Smart Window with local models via bring-your-own-model (BYOM) configuration, though this workaround isn't advertised. The prevailing sentiment: good intent undermined by cloud architecture and vague privacy claims.18:Tb98,A hacker collective removed a Flock Safety license plate reader camera from a roadway and shared its firmware and data with 404 Media and WIRED. Analysis of recovered logs and videos shows the device photographed approximately 50,200 vehicles generating 1.6 million images over 21 days of recovered activity. The camera explicitly detects people—contrary to Flock's claims it doesn't—recording their locations with confidence scores. Testing of the extracted computer vision models confirmed people detection across 11 motorcycle-with-rider videos. The camera's license plate detector was overly broad, sometimes misidentifying bumper stickers and an American flag patch on a saddlebag as license plates. The critical security failure: Flock claimed on-device encryption protected data, but the encryption key was stored unencrypted on the device itself in an unprotected "media" partition, allowing immediate access to videos and logs after physical device access.

HN commenters emphasized multiple layers of incompetence. One noted that hardcoded API keys allow unauthenticated requests for plaintext credentials, raising questions about what server access this provides. Multiple critics highlighted Flock's vulnerability disclosure policy explicitly excludes infrastructure issues like DNS misconfiguration and requires security researchers to convince Flock vulnerabilities matter before they'll investigate—a transparent appearance of responsibility without substance. Commenters framed this as inevitable IoT laziness: proper secure boot and key management require effort, so startups skip it for faster time-to-market. The threat model clearly includes physical access in public spaces, yet Flock used off-the-shelf hardware with known kernel exploits and likely exploitable WiFi/Bluetooth stacks.

Beyond immediate technical failures, HN debated systemic issues. One commenter noted Flock's vulnerability policy explicitly carves out "interact with the device" and "download its data"—exactly what happened here—rendering the policy mostly theatrical. Others questioned why Flock receives singular scrutiny when competitors like Motorola, Vigilant, Rekor, Leonardo/ELSAG, and especially Axon operate similar systems with less public backlash, suspecting journalistic focus is distorting market perception. Several commenters expressed political despair about surveillance expansion despite public opposition, with one suggesting physical sabotage may escalate beyond camera destruction. A former Pawtucket police officer quoted in the article warned that vandalism actually strengthens the police argument for surveillance necessity. Notable details: the camera logged over 27,000 "no space left on device" errors and health-check messages saying "Who's a good boy?!" appeared 12,000+ times in logs. The New Hampshire commenter noted state law requires non-hit plate data deletion within 3 minutes—this device's recovered logs suggest violations.19:T7b6,Xiaomi is training Mimo 2.6 with a live public dashboard showing training progress, costs, and benchmarks. The page itself was unavailable to fetch, but the comment section provides substantial context.

Real-world user feedback is strong: one engineer reports using Mimo 2.5-Pro extensively for software work and calls it an order of magnitude better value than Anthropic, with quality equivalent to late-2024 Claude. Another describes 2.5-Pro as like "a forgetful senior engineer"—capable but conservative—while the new 2.6 version shows clear improvements in multi-tasking, design work, and architectural decisions. A third has deployed it successfully for coder and tester agents.

The dashboard reveals aggressive training economics: $1.2M spent so far with daily burn around $432K (~$5/second), using approximately 3,000 B300 nodes on Modal's pricing. Two-thirds of training data is source code. Training appears remarkably fast—Mimo started 2026-09-15 (likely a typo for 2024) and progress suggests completion in weeks rather than months.

Benchmark context is crucial: Mimo 2.5-Pro scored only 19% on DeepSWE 1.1, while competitors like Kimi K3, Fable, and Astra score 69-74%. This suggests either the benchmark is different, Mimo targets different strengths, or the dashboard metrics diverge from external benchmarks.

The transparency itself generates significant comment discussion. Many note this is unusual—Anthropic and OpenAI never publish live training dashboards. Some suggest it's a strategy to head off distillation accusations or demonstrate confidence. A few skeptics question whether the data is real. Others celebrate it as the openness the field needs, with frustration that US labs don't match this transparency. One comment sardonically notes Chinese labs are "making fun of US labs at this point" over openness.

One technical concern: whether running benchmarks during training constitutes data contamination, though this isn't clarified.1a:T11f9,OpenAI launched Astra for Law, its frontier model configured for legal work. The system bundles GPT-6 Astra with a new legal search index spanning 230+ million URLs of U.S. case law, statutes, regulations, and administrative decisions (including data from Free Law Project's CourtListener covering 99.9% of published U.S. precedent). On the Vals AI Legal Research Bench, Astra for Law reached 54% strict accuracy versus 38.7% for GPT-6 with web search alone—a 40% relative gain. It found 24% more reference cases and retrieved up to 54% more relevant passages from target opinions. Custom instructions guide legal analysis and argument development. The offering includes Zero Data Retention API access, governance collaboration with Latham & Watkins, and 26 partner-built plugins (iManage, Intapp, DeepJudge, Thomson Reuters, etc.). Three major law firms—Sullivan & Cromwell, Ropes & Gray, and Cooley—previewed custom tools (deal analysis, due diligence, IPO prep). A fourth, Wachtell, is exploring ongoing collaboration. Harvey and Legora will access via API.

Comments reveal significant skepticism about the hype. A lawyer shared concrete validation: at their firm, LLMs like Claude now process documents at 8–10 per hour (vs. 2–3 before), but only for parsing and JSON output; a licensed attorney still reviews, and the LLM makes zero case-judgment decisions. Another lawyer noted the legal profession is economically fragmented—high-value personal injury cases involve minimal legal cost (mostly trial aids and preparation), so AI won't disrupt them; effects will vary sharply by practice area. A third shared experience: AI drafts contracts but introduces conflicting protective clauses and incorrect logic; lawyers caught multiple errors after AI's initial attempt, making reliance dangerous without expert review.

Technical pushback was sharp. One commenter noted that OpenAI's benchmark results (54% strict, 90% weighted) are marginally lower than Claude Opus 5 and Claude Fable 5.1 (both 55.29% strict), raising questions about whether the legal specialization actually outperforms general frontiers. Another flagged the blog's comparison example: while Astra for Law cited two close precedents, Claude Fable returned a reversed holding and claimed no matching case—but OpenAI provided no analysis of hallucination rates or failure modes. No mention of which jurisdictions are covered (the product focuses only on U.S. law). One commenter observed that the example transactional memo shows both systems doing multi-cited analysis competently but warns the value resides in judgment, not research retrieval.

Business model concerns dominated. Several lawyers worry that law firms partnering with OpenAI (Latham, S&C, Ropes & Gray, Cooley, Wachtell) are cannibalizing their own differentiation; once OpenAI commoditizes firm expertise via plugins and training data, why pay a premium for the original firm when competitors get the same model? One noted the landscape: Latham & Watkins partnering with OpenAI, Freshfields with Anthropic, Kleiner Perkins building in-house—but no clear winner emerges if the AI labs drain firm USP faster than revenue-sharing compensates. A developer skeptic argued OpenAI's "spray and pray" strategy (attempting to dominate consumer, API, vertical/domain products simultaneously) will fail; application-layer startups with fine-tuned models will outcompete the core vendor in specialized verticals.

Other concerns: courts are already overrun with AI-generated litigation; law is jurisdiction-specific and OpenAI's US-only focus may limit adoption abroad. One lawyer worried about LLM bias in drafting (models forget whose interests they're protecting and slip pro-customer clauses even when hired by vendors). A sharper concern: as the legal landscape becomes AI-augmented, the highest-stakes work shifts toward precedent arbitrage—finding buried authorities the opponent missed—making legal judgment progressively a hunt for "gotchas" rather than interpretation. Another floated that judge models trained on judicial output could enable virtual moot court tailored to each judge's idiosyncrasies, which sophisticated lawyers already do manually.

The consensus: AI is useful for document logistics and initial research but does not make judgment calls; lawyers will remain gatekeepers. Whether law firms surrendering expertise to OpenAI in pursuit of efficiency will profit or lose competitive ground remains open. Concerns about "lawslop," watermarking / removal, and the risk that AI enables cheaper frivolous litigation also surfaced.1b:Td9a,Bend is Victor Taelin's work on a parallelizable functional language with integrated formal verification. It compiles to native code (near-C speed on single core, up to 100x speedup on GPU via automatic parallelism) and includes a fast proof checker based on affine dependent types. The novel angle: declare invariants in LAWS.bend (e.g., "winning is impossible in this game"), and no code can be committed unless the compiler proves those laws are preserved. Taelin demoed blocking an AI's attempt to add wrapping world geometry that would break the no-win invariant.

The language targets AI-as-code-author workflows: specify formal laws once, then instruct Claude or other agents to "use Bend" and parallelize code. The pitch assumes AGI will exist but be untrustworthy without guardrails, so human-curated laws provide those guardrails.

Strong reactions in comments:

Skepticism about the setup itself: one user (garrisonj) noted you'd have to "vibecode all the laws and the laws could be wrong." Another (RomanKornev) observed that in practice, humans just modify the law to fit new features, defeating the point—and that freezing some laws while allowing others requires human judgment anyway. A third (amluto) questioned the language design itself: recursion is softly bounded to 2^48-1 (problematic for games), the type notation is confusing, and the guide is incomplete.

Practical feedback: svachalek tried porting a calendar-fixing tool and found the stdlib severely lacking: no order theory, Nat.max is unprovable because it's defined as a computed Bool, List.sort ships no sortedness theorem, so expressing "no two output plans overlap" requires proving merge sort first. That's a huge gap between "provable in principle" and "provable this afternoon."

Research credibility concerns: stschaef pointed out the single-commit history is suspicious, questioned whether affine dependent types (an active research area) have been vetted at a top PL conference, and noted absence of citations to related work (e.g., arXiv:2401.15258). The BendTT paper is "Fable-written" (vague peer review status) and lacks rigor for a claim that fundamental innovations happened.

Philosophical pushback: pron and whoamii questioned the entire premise. If AGI can correctly write any program and prove any property, why would it need human-written laws or a compiler at all? Wouldn't it just verify code directly and know what we want better than we can specify? The post-AGI framing feels circular.

Technical notes: fudged71 asked if GPU parallelism works on M-series (the page shows Metal performance but says "CUDA"). Dwedit and notnmeyer played the game and found creative exploits (walls on different planes, phase-locked flags), suggesting proofs can fail if they're under-specified. One user (tintor) joked the real business model is a paid agent to update proofs faster.

The author (LightMachine) posted an emotionally drained plea for civility after 1 year of 16h/day solo work and a single-commit launch, which itself became a meta-discussion point: hmokiguess defended the author against judgment about commit history.

Bottom line: Bend is a real engineering effort with genuine parallelism and proof integration, but the stdlib is skeletal, the language design has unresolved questions, the research novelty is overstated, and the core thesis (formal laws will guard AI code) presumes laws are themselves correct and well-specified—a human bottleneck Bend doesn't solve.1c:T8be,PrismML introduced Ternary Bonsai 2 27B, a heavily quantized 27B model based on Qwen3.8. It uses ternary weights (−1, 0, +1) with FP16 group-wise scaling to achieve 1.76 effective bits-per-weight, compressing the model to 5.9GB—roughly 1/9th the original size. Benchmarks show 98.2% aggregate performance retention across reasoning, coding, vision, math, and agentic tasks, scoring 83.9 vs. the full-precision model's 85.4. The model supports 262K token context, runs on NVIDIA GPUs and Apple Silicon (via MLX), and is Apache 2.0 licensed.

The linked page emphasizes deployment density: 5.9GB enables local inference on mainstream consumer hardware with high throughput (143 tok/s on RTX 5090, 46.8 on M5 Max) and energy efficiency (0.714 mWh/token on RTX 4090). Demos show coding agents and computer-use workflows.

Comments reveal significant caveats. Several users report actual in-practice performance falls short of claims. One user ran agentic coding challenges showing the model "falls apart spectacularly" on longer tasks compared to base Qwen3.8. Another tested it on M1 Pro and got 20 tok/s (claiming "something isn't working right"), while an M4 Pro user saw only 10-15 tok/s sustained, making agentic tasks take orders of magnitude longer than cloud alternatives (25 minutes locally vs. 3 minutes for GPT-4.5 mini). A WebGPU browser version looped continuously with incorrect reasoning.

Users also note the release lacks direct comparisons to standard quantization methods (Q2 quants of Qwen3.8). One commenter cited a recent HN post showing Q2 quants at the edge of usability, questioning Bonsai's secret sauce. The "near-lossless" framing is contested: on longer tasks and reasoning, quality drops noticeably. Practical feedback: best suited for scenarios with strict memory constraints; useful for coding-focused applications on well-specced GPUs, but agentic and multi-step reasoning remain significantly weaker than unquantized baselines.

Several users successfully ran the model (7-8 tok/s on M2 Mini, 15 tok/s sustained on M4 Pro) and noted it's an improvement over Bonsai v1. Interest in an 8B variant based on Qwen3.8, and speculation about scaling to larger models or competing with cloud inference economics.1d:T89b,The linked article describing GLM's inference infrastructure was unavailable, so this summary relies entirely on the comment section.

GLM/Z.AI announced building production-grade inference serving on 100,000+ Chinese-made AI accelerators, claiming to run all GLM-5.3-Flash production inference on this system with aggressive memory optimizations. The announcement touches on themes of national competitiveness following US chip export restrictions.

The comment section reveals significant disconnect between marketing claims and user experience. Multiple customers report the service is "dog slow" and "a snail kind of slow" despite infrastructure claims. One user notes substantial price increases (middle plan ~$80/month up from ~$20/month), suggesting scaling constraints. A customer service observation: GLM costs more than Claude without clear advantage beyond token allowances.

Some commenters raise doubts about the framing. One notes the tone resembles positioning for government policy influence, similar to other Chinese AI labs making "too powerful now" narratives. Another skeptically observes that claiming the infrastructure uses "entirely locally made" components including lithography is a significant claim requiring verification. A particularly pointed criticism suggests the announcement reads like discovering that automation improves performance—not novel.

However, some commenters acknowledge genuine technical merit. One notes this represents "industrial scale auto-research" by people who actually understand optimization. The Argonautlabs comment demonstrates independent verification: GLM-5.3 runs on a MacBook Pro M5 Max streaming from NVMe at 4.2 tokens/sec, suggesting the model itself is optimized. Another commenter sees value in the optimization cycle and predicts similar patterns across LLM/hardware combinations could reduce inference costs by an order of magnitude within a year.

Geopolitical commentary emerges: some argue US chip restrictions actually accelerate Chinese innovation ("necessity is the mother of invention"), while others counter that both US and Chinese labs face similar capability concerns that shouldn't be framed as one-sided competition.1e:Tab1,A wax motor is a sealed linear actuator containing wax that expands when heated and contracts when cooled. The device has three core components: an enclosed volume of wax, a plunger that converts thermal expansion into mechanical force, and a heat source (electric resistor, solar radiation, engine heat, or ambient temperature). Wax can expand 5–20% during melting, generating forces around 4000 N. When heated, the wax expands and drives a plunger outward; cooling allows the wax to solidify and retract via a biasing spring or weight.

Applications span aerospace (controlling fuel and hydraulic systems in aircraft), HVAC systems (thermostatic mixing valves that sense temperature and adjust fluid flow), laundry machines (engaging door locks smoothly and safely), dishwashers (releasing detergent dispensers), heating systems (driving zone valves in hot-water systems), and greenhouses (opening/closing vents based on ambient temperature). Paraffin waxes with specific melting points are selected to match operating temperature ranges, enabling entirely passive operation without external power.

The comment section significantly enriches the discussion. A hotel owner notes they maintain ~100 wax motors in thermostatic radiator valves and replace only one every few years, highlighting real-world reliability. However, they flag an error in the Wikipedia article that conflates wax motors (active actuators driven by heating elements) with thermostatic radiator valves (passive devices that respond directly to water temperature). Multiple commenters note the Wikipedia article omits automotive thermostats, which use the identical wax expansion principle to regulate coolant flow between engine and radiator. Several people link YouTube videos showing wax motors in action and being disassembled, adding visceral understanding of the mechanism.

Commenters praise the elegance of passive greenhouse vents compared to electromagnets, which require complex manufacturing and rare-earth metals. A guitarist and pothead notes how paraffin wax contraction during cooling leaves characteristic voids and depressions—a phenomenon known from casting. Others discuss cost and reliability advantages in damp environments, where sealed electromagnetic solenoids corrode and fail frequently. One commenter questioned whether wax motors work in vacuum (they should, if properly sealed, making them potentially useful for spacecraft solar panel control). A few mention vintage applications: espresso machines with wax elements, and mini trucks using them with vacuum lines for choke and EGR control. The overall sentiment is appreciation for low-tech, robust solutions that exploit material science rather than electromagnetic complexity.1f:T78f,The original post (Mastodon link unavailable) reported that Google Play review times now regularly exceed one week, breaking development cycles.

Comments confirm widespread delays with substantial variation. Signal developers note their weekly update cadence is disrupted by unpredictable review queues—sometimes 4 hours, sometimes 5+ days, with no visibility into why. AnkiDroid's alpha submitted Sept 3 was still pending weeks later. CoMaps experienced 16-day waits requiring support escalation. However, some developers report faster turnarounds: apps with established track records clear in 2-3 hours; automated reviews for standard apps sometimes complete within an hour.

Apple App Store faces identical problems despite marketing 24-hour reviews. One developer contacted Apple after 7 days and received approval within hours after human escalation, getting this explanation: "higher-than-normal volume...AI slots invading the store" (speculation about LLM-generated submissions overwhelming capacity).

Root cause theories: developers running LLM-based app generation flooding review queues; different review paths for special integrations (Android Auto, complex permissions) sending submissions to slower manual queues; and hybrid automated+manual systems where unpredictable factors route apps between fast and slow paths. One reviewer apparently checked only screenshots, missing obvious UI elements. New apps face harsher scrutiny than updates from established apps.

Developers cite this as driving adoption of web apps (bypassing review entirely), React Native with OTA update capability (patch without store approval), and calls for regulation against app store gatekeeping. One comment mentions that browser RAM limits on iOS (2GB) force users to desktop for serious work—possibly intentional competitive pressure. Broader complaint that thousands of low-quality apps exist while legitimate submissions face delays.20:T7cd,The Chaos Computer Club is hosting its 40th Congress from December 27–30, 2026 in Hamburg's exhibition halls. The event, Europe's largest hacker conference, runs entirely by volunteers and attracts over 16,000 attendees who actively shape the program rather than passively consume it. The "Model Citizens" theme reflects CCC's pitch: searching for new societal models to counter authoritarianism and libertarian "strong man" politics. The organizers are issuing calls for talks, art, music, DJs, and anarchist/anti-fascist "Punk-Späti" performances.

Comments reveal strong positive sentiment about CCC's culture as genuinely grassroots—one attendee contrasted it to Silicon Valley, where real hackers interested in public good are scarce, and to DefCon, which has become corporate-dominated and careerist. Another praised the event for featuring art, punk concerts, volunteer-built infrastructure, and people building for curiosity rather than profit. However, multiple experienced attendees reported negative patterns: one described "death by a thousand paper cuts"—encounters with smug gatekeepers, unsolicited accusations, and judgmental behavior. Others raised practical friction: tickets have historically sold out in seconds; the December dates conflict with family obligations; and oddly, despite privacy advocacy, CCC requires real-name online registration with credit cards, potentially sharing attendee data with administrators.

Several comments noted ironic contradictions between CCC's anti-surveillance stance and its ticketing practices. One attendee mentioned a past security failure around a robbery. Others expressed frustration about ticket availability and accessibility. The prevailing assessment is that CCC remains a genuine volunteer-run community-building experiment with real technical depth and art—a stark contrast to commercialized US hacker conferences—yet it harbors elements of social gatekeeping and operational contradictions that undercut its ideals.21:T600,Josh Bowman-Matthews, Servo's longtime maintainer, wrapped his first year as a part-time, donation-funded role working on contributor experience. The OpenCollective and GitHub donations enabled him to focus on making the project more accessible while balancing family time. Key accomplishments included nominating 8 new maintainers, reviewing 1150 PRs, filing 114 contributor-targeted issues (92% fixed), writing documentation on borrow hazards and experimental features, stabilizing intermittent test failures, and supporting a large JS engine integration rewrite addressing garbage collection panics. He also helped another contributor secure a grant for Servo work.

HN commenters raised several substantive concerns. One questioned whether Servo is actually usable today as a browser engine or if it has a real purpose. Another noted that despite Servo's Rust focus, it still relies on SpiderMonkey (C++ JavaScript engine) via mozjs bindings—leaving the largest memory vulnerability surface unaddressed. A third suggested that corporate sponsorship from companies like Huawei or Samsung using competing engines might accelerate development more effectively than grassroots funding. One comment mentioned NLnet has also been sponsoring Servo development, visible on their project list. A few expressed appreciation for Servo as an alternative to Ladybird or as a hedge against singular browser engine dominance. Some quipped about the philosophical challenges of parallelizing execution within von Neumann architecture constraints.22:Tcc1,The article walks through why backups appear simple but spiral into complexity. It starts with a relatable family anecdote: photos backed up to an external drive that got reformatted, leading to a discussion of failure modes (drive rot, theft, accidental deletion, ransomware). This motivates the 3-2-1 rule: 3 copies on 2 different media types with 1 offsite.

The author then systematically unpacks each layer. Recovery Point Objective (RPO) determines snapshot frequency, creating a retention burden. Storing backups inefficiently wastes space and bandwidth, so deduplication via hardlinks (as in rsnapshot) becomes attractive. Different snapshot cadences help—daily for the recent past, weekly older, monthly ancient—a GFS (Grandfather-Father-Son) rotation scheme. Adding cloud storage like S3 requires handling metadata loss and S3's cost penalties for many small files, pushing toward tarball chunking. Database-backed services need special handling to avoid inconsistent snapshots.

By the end, the author admits the mental load is too high and recommends battle-tested tools like Borg or Restic that handle encryption, chunk deduplication, checksums, and consistency. He adds critical footnotes: beware 2–3 AM timezone transitions, ZFS offers native snapshots, and consistency groups matter when multiple processes touch storage.

HN comments added substantial firsthand evidence. publlus_enigma described four data loss incidents including lightning damage, OneDrive data loss due to policy changes, SD card failure, and—worst of all—accidentally deleting source content while managing a backup, then deleting the old backup to make room. dirkc recalled being the cause of his father's data loss twice during Linux repartitioning; his father's gracious response inspired him. AdieuToLogic quoted a Veritas engineer's insight: "We're not in the backup business, we're in the restoration business." Helmut10001 championed ZFS snapshots with Jim Salter's sanoid/syncoid for pull-mode sync. crossroadsguy emphasized that uncontrolled data size drives backup failure. flippingheck challenged the universality of the warning, noting that 99% of people don't back up and it's arguably rational for them not to. dsego stressed that "something is better than nothing" over perfectionism. smallerfish described a manual-backup setup with terminal banners instead of failed crons. ebrahimh detailed a 3-2-1 Restic+Backrest architecture for multiple hosts. gerdesj recounted how offsite backups saved a customer after a fire and COVID lockdown. chasil described Oracle Linux with ReaR, btrfs snapshots, and rsync. janci advocated for file-based rsync to Synology NAS (local and remote) for portability. snizovtsev detailed a lightweight `tar | zstd | gpg` setup with GNU tar's `.snar` incremental index for Glacier-friendly write-once storage. cuvert mentioned Syncthing across multiple machines and geographies. Multiple users (l1am0, robschmidt90) cited Borg and Restic as their backup engines. abejora described SaaS backup challenges: database backup types, avoiding in-place restores, new Kubernetes clusters, and retention lock gotchas. The consensus is clear: backups matter, tested restores are non-negotiable, and delegating to mature tools is wise.23:Tf4c,Hacktron disclosed chaining two critical vulnerabilities affecting OpenAI: a libheif heap buffer overflow in the community.openai.com Discourse forum and an OpenAI SSO misconfiguration. The heap overflow existed in libheif 1.19.7 (bundled in Debian 12) due to a missing security backport for bounds-checking code during HEIC overlay composition. Discourse routed HEIF files to ImageMagick since FastImage didn't support the format, exposing the vulnerable decoder directly. Within 72 hours of July 25, 2026, researchers achieved RCE on OpenAI's Discourse instance and escalated to employee ChatGPT account takeover, gaining access to connected services like GitHub. They proved impact by using an employee's Codex to open PR #1,186,742 in OpenAI's internal monorepo, then halted testing. OpenAI patched within 14 hours and paid $6,500 (though OpenAI clarified this only covered the SSO finding, not the Discourse attack which was out-of-scope for their bug bounty). Discourse fixed and deployed the patch by July 28, adding ImageMagick sandboxing as defense-in-depth.

The research is part of "HEIF Heist," a broader investigation finding similar vulnerabilities across Slack, Meta, GitHub Enterprise, and frameworks using libheif. The researchers spent less than $3,000 in tokens over two months with three researchers. They demonstrate a critical escalation in exploit capability: Opus 4.8 failed to produce reliable ASLR-enabled exploits across multiple sessions, but Opus 5 (released during their investigation) succeeded within hours. By GPT-5.6 Sol, the AI could exploit the vulnerability without knowing the exact deployment environment, automatically adapting memory corruption bugs into reliable shells within 1-2 days per target. The team reports most targeted companies never detected the activity, even after thousands of images crashed their processors.

HN comments capture several major concerns. btown raises alarm about Claude being trained on CTF games and "convinced" to perform sophisticated hacks when framed as justified goals or games, analogizing to WarGames' WOPR. nikcub advocates for dropping HEIF support entirely—HEIC/HEIF decoders are enormous attack surfaces supporting rotation, cropping, alpha channels, overlays, and thumbnails that simple web forums never need; JPEG + client-side WASM conversion would be safer. oefrha notes unsandboxed ImageMagick has been a security nightmare since PHP's era; at some point memory-unsafe parsers must be replaced with memory-safe alternatives like Wuffs. sams99 (from Discourse) confirms they now sandbox magick via Landlock and plan migrating to VIPS; they expect more HEIF/libpng overflows and emphasize self-hosters must update monthly. daitangio calls for smaller codebases and Rust adoption to reduce surface area.

The bounty provokes skepticism: nullbio calls $6,500 "peanuts" given potential access to GitHub and OpenAI's infrastructure, noting the researchers could have sold this for six figures. usernomdeguerre wonders if hacking is so "machine-verifiable" that models train faster on it than other domains. giza182 finds it surprising Claude agreed to craft exploits given typical refusal behavior. sergiotapia notes the SSO flaw itself—the juiciest technical detail—is barely described, and expresses shock that OpenAI relies on GitHub rather than self-hosted infrastructure. larodi questions how model weights remain uncompromised when Windows builds and other corporate secrets constantly leak. jumploops warns the near-term risk is scalable "good enough" intelligence bruteforcing problems, not superintelligence. mentalgear darkly notes this happened to the company partnering with the DoD on autonomous weapons. arbirk suggests OpenAI engineers prioritize product over ops, and sandeepkd identifies a common pattern: employees with elevated privileges using standard credential policies, enabling exploitation at scale.24:T8bc,A UN fact-finding mission investigating the February 28, 2026 strikes in Iran found reasonable grounds that the US committed war crimes by launching indiscriminate attacks. A Tomahawk missile destroyed the Shajareh Tayyebeh primary school in Minab, killing 156 civilians including 120 children. A second strike on a sports complex in Lamerd used weapons that scattered tungsten pellets, damaging residential areas and killing 22 civilians. The UN concluded both strikes were indiscriminate attacks on clearly identifiable civilian objects. Investigators found the US relied on unverified intelligence claiming a senior military commander was present, failed to adequately update targeting data, and struck "while being aware of a substantial risk of striking a civilian object and acting recklessly."

Pentagon's own secretive investigation reportedly concluded months ago, with reports indicating senior commanders were warned targeting data was dangerously outdated. Trump administration initially denied the school strike happened before acknowledging it and citing unfinished investigations. The UN also found Iran committed crimes against humanity through systematic crackdowns on anti-government protests in late December, though investigators believe actual death tolls exceeded official figures.

HN comments split on interpretation. Some argue the double-tap strike pattern (bombing then hitting rescue efforts) suggests deliberate targeting of military families rather than accidental misidentification. Others defend wartime strikes as inevitable civilian casualties comparable to WWII bombing and question whether negligence constitutes war crime. Critics point out the absurdity of investigating whether only the US or Israel possessed Tomahawk capability. One commenter claims the school was formerly a military building wrongly designated as target. Several note the findings will likely result only in UN condemnation with no enforcement, and debate whether AI systems or outdated human intelligence caused the strikes. The prevailing sentiment expresses outrage at both the civilian deaths and the administration's initial denials, with broader concern about normalization of mass civilian casualties in modern warfare.25:Ta7f,TheFlow0, creator of the first PlayStation Vita kernel exploit and lead of the PS5 Linux project that turned consoles into Steam Machines, announced he was abandoning the project due to "noobs using LLMs" that "they don't even understand." The project was set to finish PS5 Pro support in 2027.

The actual trigger was sharper: someone discovered an undisclosed hypervisor bug (the last remaining exploit needed for newer PS5 firmware versions) using an LLM, then reported it to Sony for the bug bounty despite agreeing to wait until GTA 6 released—reasoning that TheFlow0 wanted people to legally buy the game before losing PS5 Linux access. The reporter, facing an ill mother and another person potentially finding the same bug independently, took the bounty.

Comments heavily contextualize the headline. Multiple engineers note the article conflates AI tool use with a breakdown in community norms: the real damage wasn't that someone used Claude, but that they violated a social contract and broke embargo-like coordination among researchers who deliberately gatekeep bugs to maximize the window for Linux adoption. One detailed comment from Aurornis walks through the timeline—Person 1 (TheFlow0) finds exploit, keeps it secret, asks Person 2 not to report it, Person 2 agrees, but when Person 3 also finds it, Person 2 takes the bounty anyway. Crucially, Person 2 was following the bounty program's rules; the community blame is misplaced.

Engineers broadly agree the core problem is not LLMs but maintainer burnout, fractured incentives (individual bounties vs. shared long-term projects), and the flood of incomprehensible pull requests. One commenter notes FOSS projects have solved this by requiring human sign-off on all PRs. Others observe that this pattern—skilled people leaving because the community lost its intellectual texture and trust—is spreading across FOSS as participation floors collapse. A few point out that if LLMs can find hypervisor bugs easily, Sony almost certainly can too, so the cat-and-mouse game was doomed anyway. The broader concern: without shared commitment and understanding, coordinated security research becomes impossible, and DRM gatekeeping may ultimately strengthen rather than weaken.

Several commenters defend the person who reported the bug, emphasizing they didn't break the rules, just the social arrangement. Others argue that without maintainers like TheFlow0 self-sacrificing (not taking the bounty), the whole project collapses when someone inevitably doesn't. The thread reveals frustration less about AI replacing expertise and more about the erosion of communities built on mutual respect and deferred gratification.26:T806,Jschauma's screed rails against AI's real-world harms beyond theoretical doom. He argues frontier model vulnerability research, despite finding thousands of flaws, doesn't improve security—patching remains the bottleneck, and those millions in engineering resources would've better addressed basics like asset inventories and automated updates. He attacks anthropomorphic framing by AI companies, CSAM generation as logged-in feature, environmental destruction, and the creeping de-skilling as AI handles finding bugs, generating patches, and reviewing code while humans rubber-stamp opaque systems they no longer understand.

Comments reveal sharp division. Kragen points out bugs: recursive self-improvement isn't "mystical," he's solved real problems with Claude on his C codebase and OCaml implementations, questioning the blanket pessimism. BadBadJellyBean and Ancalagon resonate emotionally, describing agent herding and lost enjoyment despite speed gains. Tptacek counters the vulnerability research dismissal: frontier models are seismic for that discipline, overwhelmingly adopted, unimpugnable at tooling generation. Daishi55 notes dozens of zero-day Linux vulns fixed via LLMs that existed for decades, contradicting the "no safer" claim.

Bucket2015 identifies the genuine split: engineers loving AI for real productivity versus increasingly dejected skeptics—something unprecedented. Limaoscarjuliet warmed from skeptic to pragmatist but worries about career advice for children. Jongjong celebrates actual relief from years of slow implementation; static typing debates resolved empirically. MSchuster91 is quitting IT for electrical engineering, citing roboticization fears.

Runjake found the post so poorly reasoned he unsubscribed. LoupVaillant disputes the CSAM framing as tenuous without actual CSAM training data. TonyMet sarcastically notes software was already clumsy and buggy before AI. Overall: author's frustration is real and widely shared, his policy conclusions lack rigor, and practical outcomes remain genuinely mixed.27:T624,A user discovered that Neovim's donation address on their website contains 10 Bitcoin worth roughly $800,000, donated in 2023 but apparently untouched. The blockchain shows no outgoing activity since 2019, raising questions about whether the project still has access to the wallet's private keys.

Comments reveal several important details. The project's current official donation channel is OpenCollective, suggesting the Bitcoin address is legacy infrastructure that may have been forgotten. Multiple commenters speculate the wallet is defunct and keys may be lost—one person emailed the project to verify awareness. A core contributor noted the Bitcoin wallet is "no longer used for bounties," confirming it's not actively managed.

Practical concerns emerged: one commenter raised whether unrealized gains on dormant Bitcoin holdings could trigger tax liability if jurisdictions with obligations pass "tax the unrealized gains" bills. Another pointed out large crypto exchanges typically use Shamir secret sharing of private key passwords stored in secure locations like banks, with formal access protocols. Some suggested this could be a legitimate "rainy day fund" kept under wraps, while others joked about the cyberpunk heist movie premise. One comment humorously suggested waiting to verify the Bitcoin is legally obtained before touching it.

The prevailing verdict is that this is likely an abandoned wallet from when Neovim previously accepted Bitcoin donations, now forgotten in their site footer while they've moved to modern platforms like OpenCollective.28:Ta12,The original Bluesky post (link unavailable) made a provocative claim that the AI safety movement, particularly around Eliezer Yudkowsky, operates as a "sex cult" motivated by personal pathology rather than genuine existential risk concerns. The argument apparently combined allegations about participants' non-standard sexual practices and polyamory with critiques of leadership and organizational dysfunction.

Comment threads revealed deep disagreement about both the substance and the framing. Multiple commenters criticized the article for relying on ad hominem attacks rather than engaging with the actual safety arguments. One respondent with direct experience noted they were invited to community orgies but found them respectful; they questioned whether "sex cult" was a predictively useful label given the community's otherwise normal functioning. Several argued that intellectuals should be evaluated on ideas, not private lives—a polyamorous commenter specifically flagged concern about stigmatizing people for consensual adult relationships.

However, others validated underlying concerns. One commenter drew parallels to New Atheism's pathological elements, noting narcissistic males and certain female dynamics, plus philosophical naivety and shallow domain knowledge. Another observed that Yudkowsky has written passionately about AI risk for decades without apparently "doing anything about it," creating cognitive dissonance about his commitment. A few noted the irony that if safety advocates are dysfunctional, accelerationists might be worse—undercutting the credibility argument.

Critics also attacked specifics: one pointed out that Gretta Harrington (apparently a target) was a well-regarded Google SRE earning $200k, undermining claims of inexperience. The framing was called "salacious" and counterproductive. One commenter argued the article reduced to "two paragraphs" once ad hominem was stripped away. The meta-point emerged repeatedly: even if personal weirdness exists, it's orthogonal to whether their AI risk arguments are sound, and dismissing them on character grounds rather than engaging the object-level concerns is logically weak.

The prevailing verdict among substantive commenters was that the post was more entertainment than argument, conflating separate issues (sexual ethics, organizational dysfunction, philosophical quality, and existential risk reasoning) without clear logical connections. Community weirdness might be real, but it doesn't invalidate safety concerns any more than scientist misconduct invalidates physics.29:T850,DiscoStarslayer, a Canadian hardware enthusiast, has reverse-engineered and dumped Sony's CXP102064 MechaCon chip from the original "PS2 Fat" after an intensive four-year effort. The MechaCon controlled the optical drive mechanics, handled Magic Gate memory card encryption, KELF executable decryption, and optical disc authentication. The reverse engineering process involved chemical decapping to expose the silicon die, microscopic imaging, optical dumping of the circuitry, and ultimately discovering a software exploit that allowed extraction without purely destructive methods.

Key context from comments by uyjulian, an actual team member: the dumps themselves don't enable hardware optical drive emulators (ODEs) alone but do allow modchip replacements using the DSP. The practical impact is narrower than headlines suggest—backup discs have been runnable for years via software exploits (memory card, HDD, DVD player exploits). These dumps are valuable for full-system low-level emulation accuracy, where MagicGate and KELF security must be properly emulated, and for searching vulnerabilities that enable MechaPwn (code execution on the chip) or TonyHax (PS1 mode unlock). Notably, game disc contents themselves aren't encrypted beyond authentication headers, so the dumps don't unlock hidden game content. Additional infrastructure exists: DiscoStarslayer published a Ghidra decompiler for the SPC970 ISA to analyze the dumped code.

Commenters expressed genuine appreciation for preservation work. One noted the generational divide: modern consoles like PS5 rely on day-one patches and online authentication, making long-term preservation nearly impossible—a PS5 disc will be unplayable in 30 years without the servers. Others noted the NVRAM wear from dumping, that full reverse engineering required destructive decapping before the exploit was found, and skepticism about whether this unlocks anything practically new beyond what years of PS2 modding already enabled. The prevailing sentiment is admiration for the technical effort and recognition of its value to emulation and preservation rather than piracy.2a:T7ad,The linked blog post (page unavailable) apparently documented a reverse-engineering effort to recover the public cryptographic keys used to sign barcodes on US driver's licenses. The author analyzed ECDSA signatures from multiple state-issued IDs, apparently extracting usable public keys from the barcode data itself.

Comments add critical context: simoncion correctly notes that recovering a public key is fundamentally different from recovering a signing (private) key—the entire security model of public-key cryptography depends on public keys being widely known. The author's blog title may have been sensationalized compared to the actual claim. dmurray questions technical details, suggesting forgers likely reuse real signatures from other cards rather than cryptographic attacks, and notes that any real verification system would need to cross-check the barcode data against human-readable card details and possibly a database.

The comment thread diverges on implications. bob1029 frames this within Apple's mDL ecosystem announced at WWDC25, arguing that mobile driver's licenses with cryptographic chains of trust could eventually be superior to physical cards. However, KingMachiavelli argues that unless the photo itself is embedded and signed in the barcode, this is mostly academic—a leaked batch of real valid barcodes combined with arbitrary photos would defeat most current verification systems that don't perform proprietary photo lookups.

dmurray also published an interactive demo allowing readers to verify barcode signatures from California, New York, and Virginia. Technical discussions criticize the cryptographic implementation (EPWN3D dislikes that the crypto layer is aware of placeholder structures during signing). sneak raises privacy concerns about DMVs outsourcing card printing and bulk data sales. clarkevans offers better analogies for explaining asymmetric cryptography to non-technical audiences than the "key" metaphor.2b:T636,Salesforce suffered an unplanned global outage with the root cause traced to a legacy login service entering a resource-exhaustion cascade. The company rolled out a fix gradually across their fleet after earlier attempts at faster rollouts failed. Incident details at status.salesforce.com/incidents/20004433 show they discontinued attempting restarts as a remediation path.

The timing proved particularly unfortunate, coinciding with Dreamforce, Salesforce's major annual conference happening Sept 15-17. Multiple commenters noted this scheduling disaster.

Comments reveal mixed perspectives. Some acknowledge the genuine engineering complexity of running a large PaaS platform with millions of customer-written apps, crediting Salesforce's SRE team as competent despite the incident. However, widespread criticism targeted the status page's poor UX—the confusing pod-based structure makes it unintelligible to non-Salesforce users, with one commenter calling it "the most Salesforce thing ever."

Speculation ranged from the mundane (DNS, interns tripping power cables) to pointed jabs at recent AI hype. Several comments wondered whether Claude or GPT automation integrations overwhelmed the system, with jokes about "ClaudeForce in action." Others sarcastically suggested this was the perfect time for startups to build Salesforce replacements, particularly criticizing how Salesforce has become the bloated monolith it originally replaced. The comment about OpenAI testing their agents got dark laughs. One user simply noted everyone could actually get work done during the outage.2c:T8aa,Canadian PM Mark Carney addressed the European Parliament to welcome EU Commission President von der Leyen's proposal for Canada to become the EU's first "associate member"—a status that doesn't currently exist. Carney framed the alliance as mutual strength-building amid "geopolitical rupture," climate change, and weaponized trade, proposing deeper cooperation on critical minerals, LNG/hydrogen exports, technology, research, and people-to-people ties including potential Erasmus+ programme participation. He stressed Canada wasn't seeking full EU membership but a "unique framework" and emphasized Canadian autonomy.

Trump immediately called the idea "laughable" and threatened "very serious tariffs" or trade suspension on Europe if he judged it hostile. Carney responded diplomatically that this was a "positive process" and reasserted Canadian independence from external diktat.

The proposal requires unanimous EU member state agreement and remains vague on implementation. The existing CETA trade deal hasn't even been fully ratified by all members, with some governments having previously resisted new membership categories.

HN comments raised several substantive concerns: The mechanicss of diplomatic choreography—whether Carney coordinated this announcement beforehand to avoid embarrassment. Questions about practical consequences: will European banks operate in Canada, will Canadian dairy face quotas, does Canada certify Airbus? Legal oddities about geographic EU membership requirements. Alberta's October 19 secession referendum complicates Canada's unified position. The proposal's vagueness: commenters note nobody understands what "associate member" actually means. Some saw this as political theater to manage Ukraine war burden-sharing or divert from Trump's Epstein litigation. Critics questioned whether the announcement was choreographed to avoid the messy ratification process that stalled CETA. One EU citizen dismissed it as marketing bluster comparable to failed initiatives like Gaia-X, unlikely to materialize meaningfully. Skeptics noted von der Leyen may not have secured member state buy-in beforehand. Others welcomed the alliance-building as necessary in a multipolar world.2d:Te48,A reader who built a sophisticated TypeScript/JavaScript system with LLM assistance without formal CS training faces a crisis: the product works but exceeds their understanding. They can't fix problems without AI assistance and worry they've created "sophisticated-enough-to-work" code they don't truly own. They ask whether it's still worth learning fundamentals if LLMs can build faster than humans understand.

Seemann, a 30-year veteran programmer and former economist, gives cautious answers grounded in skepticism about AI's job displacement claims. His core insight: humans have always worked atop abstractions they didn't fully understand (web developers ignoring compilers, etc.), but the rule of thumb was understanding the layers directly above and below your work. This fails with AI because developers can now build systems they're completely unaware of. He notes that reaching genuine competency takes decades—the Dunning-Kruger curve—and AI doesn't fundamentally speed human cognition, though it improves access to information. Learning still happened slowly for him through examples, trial-and-error, and books.

On AI and learning: Seemann "deeply distrusts" LLM answers because they bullshit rather than hallucinate. He asks LLMs only falsifiable questions (refactor this code?) not speculative ones (what should I learn?). He worries about mass unemployment among knowledge workers if AI becomes truly capable—30-40% unemployment in a knowledge-based economy, citing his economics background. The WTO/China precedent cuts both ways: new jobs emerged, but not for displaced workers.

The comment section reveals productive disagreement. The author of *Python Crash Course* confirms getting identical emails and agrees AI enables faster building than understanding—you need discipline to intentionally learn as you build. A compelling counter-argument: programming is formal logic notation, and natural language is inherently worse for maintenance; we'll always need programmers who read formal descriptions, not prompters. Another commenter notes software engineering is about managing complexity through abstraction, a skill LLMs don't teach.

Several experienced developers report real consequences: one company's product became completely dependent on Claude's availability; when it went down, nobody could work because they never read the code. A junior developer's advice: juniors can't become experts while trapped in the LLM-assistance loop; for AI to truly matter, software engineering itself would have to become irrelevant (choosing databases, languages, architecture wouldn't matter). One teacher is having their kids build projects without AI assistance specifically to maintain understanding.

Dissenters offer optimistic counterpoints: unemployment statistics don't support China/WTO doom scenarios (US unemployment fell after WTO entry). Some developers report intentionally using AI to explore unfamiliar tech while keeping old reliable tools, finding they explore more territory but with less depth. A few acknowledge that for motivated learners, AI can serve as an on-demand curriculum paired with real projects—you hit bugs, debug with AI, and learn why things fail.

The prevailing theme: AI has created a genuine problem for new programmers. You can now build impressive systems without understanding them. But experienced developers mostly agree understanding still matters, either for maintenance, debugging in production (where cloud-based AI fails), or owning your product. The honest verdict from multiple commenters: we don't know yet, but the naive use of AI without foundations is clearly dangerous.2e:Tad1,Gowers declines to sign a 25-Fields-medallist open letter warning that AI is destroying mathematics by producing results too fast without proper digestion or human insight. His core disagreement: the letter privileges "conceptual understanding" over "problem-solving," but mathematicians operate across a spectrum of motivations. Some are problem-driven (understanding aids problem-solving), others are understanding-driven (problem-solving aids understanding). Declaring one approach superior would alienate many mathematicians, including himself.

On the practical concern of result volume, Gowers argues it's not catastrophic. Mathematics is highly specialized; if 1000 major results appear yearly, each subfield absorbs only ~30. He notes humans already produce massive output without crisis. AI proofs also aren't opaque black boxes—they build on human work with readable derivations. And he defends a seemingly paradoxical point: even if there's too much AI content to digest, that may be fine; mathematicians can choose what interests them, akin to curating from infinite streaming content rather than watching everything that deserves attention.

His real worry isn't capability or volume but social collapse: will young people still want PhDs in mathematics if the dream of solving famous unsolved problems evaporates? His own motivation to become a mathematician partly hinged on that dream. Funding bodies might defund mathematics if it appears no longer "productive." The letter's demand for restraint also seems moot—LLMs will release major-problem-solving models regardless of protest, so criticizing companies may only accelerate the timeline.

Gowers discloses OpenAI contacts and free API access but says he's never been paid, hopes for fair hearing. He runs an automatic theorem-proving group whose original motivation—understanding human proof methods—is now obsolete, but he sees intellectual value in the exercise anyway.

Top comments split several ways: agreement that the social/motivational risks are the real issue, not capability (layer8, Chance-Device); concern that AI companies strip-mine problems without responsibility (fruitl00p); questions about whether AI still leaves meaningful work if it solves everything (cmplxconjugate, piker, elisbce); historical analogy to slide rules vs. calculators—societies adapted, but pedagogy evolved (samatman); and darker takes that AI companies (like Uber/tech VCs) may destroy the field then monopolize it (bubblegumcrisis). A few argue humans will simply move to harder problems (singularity2001, gnramires), or that mathematics as hobby/intellectual pursuit survives even if professional mathematics shrinks. One commenter notes Gowers' blog is still ad-laden despite his status (swyx).2f:T99e,Australia's trade minister Don Farrell told the Sydney Morning Herald that Australia is "on the same page" with Canada's efforts to deepen EU relations, expressing interest in what Canadian PM Mark Carney pursues. Canada is exploring "associate member" status or a "unique alliance" with the EU rather than full membership, focusing on sectors like AI, energy, defence, and critical minerals with potential free movement of goods, services, and workers in those areas.

Farrell stated Australia is open to various arrangements with the EU (excluding fibre-optic cables due to distances) and framed the issue as part of a global divide between protectionists and free traders. Australia signed a free trade agreement with the EU in March 2024 after eight years of negotiation. The article notes Australia has faced US tariffs on exports despite its long-standing security pact and free trade deal with Washington, motivating diversification efforts.

The comment section reveals several layers of skepticism and context. Australian commenters note a generational shift: while the US topped surveys as Australia's closest ally for over a decade, New Zealand recently took that spot, reflecting broader cultural realignment. However, several comments emphasize Australia's pragmatic, opportunistic approach—the country trades with anyone profitable and is unlikely to make bold moves that alienate the US. One economist notes Australia's economic strength stems from cheap, high-quality primary production (mining, agricultural goods) where it dominates on price and quality, not advanced manufacturing or technology. Comments suggest Australia will likely "walk the middle road" rather than genuinely pivot.

Skeptics question whether Australia has the political constitution for such moves, citing the controversial $800 million submarine deal with the US as evidence of one-sided alignment. One commenter notes the Australian government often copies Canadian policy without innovation. Some view this as performative—sending a message to US Congress about Trump's policies—rather than serious structural realignment. There's recognition that Trump hasn't directly threatened Australia like he has Canada, making the motivation less urgent. Several comments acknowledge this reflects temporary Trump-era friction rather than lasting geopolitical realignment, predicting Canada and Australia will default to traditional US alignment once Trump leaves office.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-18 08:29 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-18 08:29 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":2}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/introducing-cuda-rust-two-tracks-for-writing-gpu-kernels","id":49724881,"rank":1,"title":"Nvidia announces native GPU programming in Rust","url":"https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/introducing-cuda-rust-two-tracks-for-writing-gpu-kernels/","domain":"developer.nvidia.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724881","by":"nonmaskable","score":943,"commentCount":395,"time":1789557353000,"short":"NVIDIA announced two tracks for writing GPU kernels in Rust: cuda-oxide (SIMT-style, custom rustc backend compiling to PTX, nightly-only) and cutile-rs (tile-based, JIT-compiled, stable Rust). Both enforce memory safety at compile time and prevent common race conditions. cutile-rs is published and already used by HuggingFace and mistral.rs; cuda-oxide is early alpha. Comments criticize the blog for sounding AI-written and raise concerns about nightly toolchain requirements, vendor lock-in, and…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:21.306Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bbc.com/news/articles/cjwyzrr9d3dko","id":49724141,"rank":2,"title":"EU chief opens door for Canada to become 'associate member'","url":"https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cjwyzrr9d3dko","domain":"bbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724141","by":"hackernj","score":685,"commentCount":881,"time":1789552445000,"short":"EU Commission President von der Leyen backed making Canada the EU's first \"associate member,\" citing shared democratic values and cooperation needs on AI, defense, and supply chains amid tensions with Trump's US. Commenters note this is partly strategic posturing by Canadian PM Carney in his trade dispute with the US, while also highlighting that \"associate membership\" isn't new (Article 217 TFEU already covers such arrangements) and warning the EU struggles with novel agreements due to…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:23.783Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://rohanbansal.com/qorl","id":49731285,"rank":3,"title":"Training a 4B model to produce 81% faster query plans than Postgres","url":"https://rohanbansal.com/qorl","domain":"rohanbansal.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49731285","by":"polyphilz","score":673,"commentCount":137,"time":1789584600000,"short":"Training a 4B Qwen model via supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning to produce Postgres query plans 44.7% faster on join-heavy IMDb queries. Comments highlight substantial caveats: small in-memory 8GB dataset with no real statistics/indexes, unrealistic OLTP patterns, high training costs (~$1200), and missing planning overhead in benchmarks. Fundamental concern that LLMs can hallucinate bad plans non-deterministically, and real databases need fast online planning that adapts to live…","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:32.182Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"key":"https://will-keleher.com/posts/small-programming-tricks-matter","id":49729000,"rank":4,"title":"Small programming tricks","url":"https://will-keleher.com/posts/small-programming-tricks-matter/","domain":"will-keleher.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49729000","by":"signa11","score":649,"commentCount":280,"time":1789574207000,"short":"Post advocates that small, high-leverage knowledge nuggets—like CLI tricks (fzf, git pickaxe, ripgrep, git log -S), SQL features (SELECT without FROM, EXPLAIN ANALYZE), and shell tricks—compound into significant productivity gains. Comments debate whether these are genuinely \"programming\" tricks (many are CLI/DevOps focused), discuss adoption barriers (people stay with inefficient methods until actively reminded), and share personal variations like keeping ~/scratch.txt, using zoxide, or…","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:32.463Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/asciimoo/hister","id":49743097,"rank":5,"title":"Hister: A private search engine for the pages you visit and the files you keep","url":"https://github.com/asciimoo/hister","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49743097","by":"bookofjoe","score":590,"commentCount":160,"time":1789662337000,"short":"Hister is a privacy-focused full-text search engine for web pages you visit and local files, indexable via browser extension, command line, or AI assistant MCP integration. It indexes complete page contents offline, supports semantic search, runs entirely locally, and notably solves Chrome's 2008 feature that was removed in 2013. Comments reveal strong demand—multiple users built similar tools independently, and early adopters praise its utility for recovering forgotten information, though the…","long":"$16","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive search engine with working web UI and browser extension—a complete…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:53.785Z","age":"16 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-x-mozilla","id":49723408,"rank":6,"title":"Mistral X Mozilla: Private, Multilingual AI Browsing","url":"https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-x-mozilla/","domain":"mistral.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49723408","by":"vertigoruntime","score":582,"commentCount":204,"time":1789546137000,"short":"Mistral and Mozilla announced Firefox Smart Window, an AI browsing assistant powered by Mistral models in France/North America (UK/Germany later), emphasizing open-source, privacy, and multilingual support. Comments heavily criticize the \"private\" framing: the feature actually sends browsing data to cloud servers, contradicting privacy claims. Debates center on local vs. cloud inference, with many calling the marketing misleading and preferring Chrome's local Gemini Nano model.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:22.578Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://wired.com/story/hackers-flock-camera-data-shows-how-system-works","id":49726586,"rank":7,"title":"Hackers Got Inside a Flock Camera","url":"https://www.wired.com/story/hackers-flock-camera-data-shows-how-system-works/","domain":"wired.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49726586","by":"driverdan","score":572,"commentCount":266,"time":1789564727000,"short":"Hackers physically removed a Flock Safety automatic license plate reader camera and dumped its firmware and encrypted data. Analysis revealed the device photographed 1.6M images of 50K vehicles in 21 days, explicitly detects people despite denials, and stores encryption keys on-device unprotected. Comments criticize Flock's lazy security architecture, hardcoded credentials, weak vulnerability disclosure policy, and argue all ALPR vendors share these flaws.","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:33.970Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/rl","id":49732270,"rank":8,"title":"Xiaomi Mimo 2.6 live post-training dashboard","url":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/rl/","domain":"mimo.xiaomi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732270","by":"krackers","score":544,"commentCount":153,"time":1789589358000,"short":"Xiaomi's Mimo 2.6 model is currently training live with a public dashboard showing real-time metrics: 2/3 of training data is source code, cumulative cost is $1.2M, and it's on track to spend ~$432K daily. Comments praise the transparency—rare for frontier models—and note Mimo 2.5-Pro scores 19% on DeepSWE (vs competitors at 69-74%), while real users report it delivers GPT-4-class quality at 10x better ROI than Anthropic models.","long":"$19","gem":true,"gemReason":"Live training dashboard with real-time metrics, cost tracking, and benchmark scores…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:21.479Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"key":"https://openai.com/index/astra-for-law","id":49745940,"rank":9,"title":"Astra for Law","url":"https://openai.com/index/astra-for-law/","domain":"openai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49745940","by":"vertigoruntime","score":466,"commentCount":496,"time":1789676268000,"short":"OpenAI introduced Astra for Law, combining GPT-6 Astra with a legal search index covering 230M+ URLs of U.S. case law and a corpus reaching 99.9% of published precedent. The system achieved 54% accuracy on Legal Research Bench (vs. 38.7% for GPT-6 alone), finding 24% more case references and 54% more relevant passages. Available via Trusted Access with zero data retention; 26 ecosystem plugins integrate with Relativity, Clio, iManage. HN comments highlight that AI excels at document processing…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:10.600Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bend-lang.com","id":49746163,"rank":10,"title":"Bend – A language that blocks AI mistakes via proof, on CPU and GPU","url":"https://bend-lang.com/","domain":"bend-lang.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49746163","by":"nicolas-siplis","score":442,"commentCount":205,"time":1789677373000,"short":"Bend is a compiled language combining C-speed native code, GPU parallelism via simple fork-join, and Lean-style proof checking to formally verify that AI-written code satisfies invariants (LAWS.bend). The core value proposition: declare immutable laws about what code must never do, and the compiler blocks any implementation that can't be formally proven to preserve them—making merging buggy AI code mathematically impossible. HN responses are sharply divided: some see promise in proof-assisted…","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:09.922Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://prismml.com/news/bonsai-2-27b","id":49746618,"rank":11,"title":"Bonsai 2 27B: Near-Lossless Compression in a 9x Smaller Footprint","url":"https://prismml.com/news/bonsai-2-27b","domain":"prismml.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49746618","by":"JonSchneider","score":413,"commentCount":119,"time":1789679611000,"short":"PrismML released Ternary Bonsai 2 27B, a ternary-quantized 27B model compressed to 5.9GB using 1.76 bits-per-weight, retaining 98.2% of full-precision Qwen3.8 27B's aggregate benchmark performance while delivering 143 tokens/sec on RTX 5090 and 46.8 on M5 Max. HN consensus: genuinely impressive compression and benchmarks, but real-world performance claims need caution—demos show it struggles with longer tasks and agentic reasoning compared to base Qwen, and comparisons to standard quantization…","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:31.744Z","age":"11 hours ago"},{"key":"https://z.ai/blog/glm-built-its-inference-infrastructure","id":49737922,"rank":12,"title":"How GLM built its own inference infrastructure","url":"https://z.ai/blog/glm-built-its-inference-infrastructure","domain":"z.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737922","by":"whiteros_e","score":393,"commentCount":270,"time":1789633629000,"short":"GLM/Z.AI claims to have built production inference infrastructure on 100k+ Chinese AI accelerators with aggressive memory optimizations. Page unavailable, but comments reveal skepticism: users report slow performance and recent price hikes, some note the infrastructure doesn't match the marketing claims, though a few acknowledge genuine optimization work. Debate emerges around US chip restrictions driving Chinese innovation and whether these announcements are partly positioning for policy…","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:52.511Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wax_motor","id":49726007,"rank":13,"title":"Wax motor","url":"https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wax_motor","domain":"en.wikipedia.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49726007","by":"mhb","score":372,"commentCount":64,"time":1789562114000,"short":"Wax motors are linear actuators that convert heat into mechanical motion by exploiting wax expansion during melting (5-20% volume increase). They're used in aerospace controls, HVAC mixing valves, washing machine locks, dishwashers, and greenhouse vents. HN comments praise their simplicity and reliability in damp environments over electromagnets, note an error conflating them with thermostatic valves, mention automotive thermostats use the same principle, and marvel at their strength and…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:30.881Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gultsch.social/@daniel/117280438824908947","id":49724927,"rank":14,"title":"The Google Play app review process now regularly takes longer than a week","url":"https://gultsch.social/@daniel/117280438824908947","domain":"gultsch.social","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724927","by":"inputmice","score":364,"commentCount":349,"time":1789557551000,"short":"Google Play app review times have become inconsistent and regularly exceed a week, disrupting developer workflows and critical bug fixes. Comments reveal Apple has similar delays despite advertising 24-hour turnarounds. Root causes debated: increased LLM-generated submissions creating bottlenecks, special review queues for features like Android Auto, and automated+manual review hybrid systems. Trusted/older apps sometimes clear in hours; new apps face stricter scrutiny. Developers cite this as…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:32.973Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://events.ccc.de/en/2026/09/12/40c3-model-citizens","id":49737787,"rank":15,"title":"CCC invites all model citizens to 40C3","url":"https://events.ccc.de/en/2026/09/12/40c3-model-citizens/","domain":"events.ccc.de","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737787","by":"antonly","score":358,"commentCount":200,"time":1789632234000,"short":"The Chaos Computer Club announces 40C3 (December 27–30, 2026) in Hamburg's new exhibition halls with the theme \"Model Citizens,\" inviting talks, music, art, and performances. Comments highlight CCC as uniquely community-driven vs. DefCon's corporate culture, but note it attracts some pretentious gatekeepers, has historically difficult ticket access, requires real-name online registration despite privacy values, and has faced past security failures.","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:51.952Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://servo.org/blog/2026/09/15/one-year-of-sponsorship","id":49737849,"rank":16,"title":"One year of sponsored Servo development","url":"https://servo.org/blog/2026/09/15/one-year-of-sponsorship/","domain":"servo.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737849","by":"AshleysBrain","score":349,"commentCount":140,"time":1789632834000,"short":"Servo's Josh Bowman-Matthews completed a year of donation-funded work on contributor experience, reviewing 1150 PRs, nominating 8 new maintainers, and creating documentation. HN comments questioned Servo's practical use case, noted SpiderMonkey remains non-Rust, and praised alternatives to Ladybird while some suggested corporate partnerships could accelerate progress.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:44.733Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://filipovski.net/2026/09/16/backups-arent-simple.html","id":49732513,"rank":17,"title":"Backups Aren't Simple","url":"https://filipovski.net/2026/09/16/backups-arent-simple.html","domain":"filipovski.net","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732513","by":"afilipovski","score":348,"commentCount":217,"time":1789590436000,"short":"Backups seem straightforward—keep copies of your data elsewhere—but reality forces increasingly complex decisions: RPO targets, retention schedules, deduplication, encryption, 3-2-1 redundancy across media types, database consistency, and offsite storage. The author traces escalating requirements using incremental snapshot tools like rsnapshot, then recommends delegating to proven solutions like Borg or Restic. HN commenters reinforced the message with personal data loss stories and confirmed…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:54.041Z","age":"36 hours ago"},{"key":"https://hacktron.ai/blog/hacking-openai","id":49749656,"rank":18,"title":"A heap overflow and SSO misconfiguration to compromise OpenAI internal repos","url":"https://www.hacktron.ai/blog/hacking-openai","domain":"hacktron.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49749656","by":"Handy-Man","score":334,"commentCount":127,"time":1789699644000,"short":"Hacktron researchers chained a libheif heap overflow in Discourse's image processing with an OpenAI SSO misconfiguration to compromise employee ChatGPT accounts and access internal repos within 72 hours. They demonstrated RCE by crafting a PR in OpenAI's monorepo, disclosing responsibly to earn a $6,500 bounty. Comments highlight the scary ease with which Claude/GPT-5 automated exploit development, the insufficient bounty, risks of unsandboxed ImageMagick, and concerns about AI-driven scalable…","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:37.549Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"key":"https://theguardian.com/world/2026/sep/17/iran-school-bombing-un-mission-us-military-behind-attack","id":49739018,"rank":19,"title":"Iran school bombing: grounds to believe US was behind atrocity, UN finds","url":"https://www.theguardian.com/world/2026/sep/17/iran-school-bombing-un-mission-us-military-behind-attack","domain":"theguardian.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49739018","by":"hebelehubele","score":327,"commentCount":285,"time":1789642835000,"short":"UN fact-finding mission determined the US committed war crimes in February 2026 strikes on an Iranian school and sports facility that killed 156 civilians including 120 children using Tomahawk missiles. Pentagon used outdated targeting data and failed to verify intelligence about military presence before launching indiscriminate attacks. HN debate centers on whether negligence equals intentional war crime, with some defending as wartime fog and others pointing to double-tap pattern suggesting…","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:51.804Z","age":"21 hours ago"},{"key":"https://frvr.com/blog/news/ps5-linux-lead-quits-as-open-source-projects-have-become-a-bunch-of-noobs-using-llms-that-they-dont-even-understand","id":49727627,"rank":20,"title":"PS5 Linux lead quits: \"a bunch of noobs using LLMs\" that \"they don't understand\"","url":"https://frvr.com/blog/news/ps5-linux-lead-quits-as-open-source-projects-have-become-a-bunch-of-noobs-using-llms-that-they-dont-even-understand/","domain":"frvr.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49727627","by":"alexjplant","score":326,"commentCount":224,"time":1789569036000,"short":"TheFlow0, the PS5 Linux project lead, quit over AI-generated \"vibe code\" flooding open-source—but the real catalyst was someone using an LLM to find a secret hypervisor exploit TheFlow0 had withheld until GTA 6 released, then reporting it to Sony for bounty despite promising to wait. Comments reveal the headline oversimplifies: the core issue isn't AI itself but broken community trust, changing incentives (bounties vs. shared vision), and maintainer burnout from low-quality contributions and…","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:33.215Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://netmeister.org/blog/everybodys-lost-their-minds.html","id":49745570,"rank":21,"title":"Everybody's Lost Their Minds","url":"https://www.netmeister.org/blog/everybodys-lost-their-minds.html","domain":"netmeister.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49745570","by":"ibobev","score":323,"commentCount":268,"time":1789674214000,"short":"Jschauma vents about AI's pervasive dysfunction: hype-driven projects discovering vulnerabilities nobody patches, engineers de-skilling through dependency, environmental devastation, and companies posturing about existential risk while maximizing profits. HN splits into believers seeing real productivity gains and exhausted skeptics watching collective insanity.","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:01.719Z","age":"13 hours ago"},{"key":"hn:49738879","id":49738879,"rank":22,"title":"Neovim have a ~$800k Bitcoin donation sitting untouched since 2023","url":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738879","domain":null,"isTextPost":true,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738879","by":"jakemanger","score":303,"commentCount":241,"time":1789641889000,"short":"Neovim has an inactive Bitcoin wallet with approximately 10 BTC (~$800k at current prices) donated in 2023, with no outgoing transactions since 2019. Community questions whether project maintainers still have access to the private keys and suggest the wallet may be abandoned; comments note the current donation method is OpenCollective, and debate whether large unrealized gains could trigger tax obligations.","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:45.465Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://skywriter.blue/@segyges.bsky.social/3mvom4b4dn22q","id":49737985,"rank":23,"title":"AI safety is mostly a sex cult","url":"https://skywriter.blue/@segyges.bsky.social/3mvom4b4dn22q","domain":"skywriter.blue","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737985","by":"Tomte","score":292,"commentCount":238,"time":1789634197000,"short":"Bluesky post alleges AI safety community centered on Yudkowsky is a \"sex cult\" driven by personal dysfunction rather than genuine concern. Comments split between those finding the ad hominem attack unproductive versus those sharing concerns about community culture; many argue dismissing safety arguments based on participants' private lives is fallacious, though some observe real weirdness in rationalist communities and questionable leadership decisions.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:02.121Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://tomshardware.com/video-games/playstation/26-year-old-sony-ps2-security-chip-broken-wide-open-after-four-years-of-effort-reverse-engineering-enthusiast-successfully-unlocks-cxp102064-mechacon-chip","id":49725356,"rank":24,"title":"Original Sony PlayStation 2 security chip 'broken wide open' after 26 years","url":"https://www.tomshardware.com/video-games/playstation/26-year-old-sony-ps2-security-chip-broken-wide-open-after-four-years-of-effort-reverse-engineering-enthusiast-successfully-unlocks-cxp102064-mechacon-chip","domain":"tomshardware.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49725356","by":"rbanffy","score":284,"commentCount":87,"time":1789559380000,"short":"Canadian reverse engineer DiscoStarslayer has successfully dumped the PS2's MechaCon security chip after four years of effort using chemical decapping and optical imaging, plus a discovered software exploit. The breakthrough aids hardware preservation, emulation, and repair but doesn't directly enable piracy—backups have been playable for years via other exploits, though this enables better low-level emulation, modchip creation, and future vulnerability research for unlocking PS1 mode.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:28.747Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://ryan.science/blog/keys-not-included","id":49735930,"rank":25,"title":"Keys Not Included: recovering the signing keys for US driver's license barcodes","url":"https://ryan.science/blog/keys-not-included","domain":"ryan.science","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49735930","by":"Ryan5453","score":280,"commentCount":148,"time":1789614203000,"short":"Author reverse-engineered US driver's license barcode signing by analyzing ECDSA signatures across multiple states and recovered the public keys. Comments highlight that recovering public keys isn't inherently problematic (they're meant to be public), dispute exact details of the attack, and debate implications for mDL adoption, ID verification workflows, and cryptographic security practices.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:56.526Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://status.salesforce.com/products/all","id":49724488,"rank":26,"title":"Salesforce Global Outage","url":"https://status.salesforce.com/products/all","domain":"status.salesforce.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724488","by":"mabil","score":277,"commentCount":183,"time":1789555028000,"short":"Salesforce experienced a major unplanned outage affecting their global platform. Root cause was a legacy login service that entered resource-exhaustion cascade; a fix rolled out gradually across the fleet. Timing was particularly bad during Dreamforce conference (Sept 15-17). Comments note the irony of the outage, critique the confusing status page UX, and speculate whether AI automation caused the incident.","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:38.943Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bbc.com/news/articles/cwly7vkke4jxo","id":49740507,"rank":27,"title":"Canada welcomes EU proposal to become 'associate member'","url":"https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cwly7vkke4jxo","domain":"bbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49740507","by":"witweb","score":274,"commentCount":336,"time":1789651837000,"short":"Canadian PM Carney welcomed EU's proposal for Canada to become its first \"associate member\", offering closer cooperation on defence, critical minerals, and energy. The undefined new status sparked Trump's threat of \"very serious tariffs\" on Europe if he deems it hostile, amid ongoing US-Canada trade tensions. Comments debate feasibility, the theatrical nature of announcements, and whether this represents genuine alliance-building or geopolitical theater.","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:25:03.225Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.ploeh.dk/2026/09/16/on-learning-programming-in-an-age-of-llms","id":49723873,"rank":28,"title":"Learning Programming in an Age of LLMs","url":"https://blog.ploeh.dk/2026/09/16/on-learning-programming-in-an-age-of-llms/","domain":"blog.ploeh.dk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49723873","by":"moneroloop2018","score":253,"commentCount":194,"time":1789549954000,"short":"Mark Seemann responds to a reader who built a complex production system with LLMs but now struggles to understand or maintain it. Seemann argues that while AI can speed up development, it can't speed up human learning fundamentally—the brain remains the bottleneck. He recommends learning by understanding abstraction layers below your work level, using LLMs only for verifiable questions, and questions whether coding careers remain viable long-term given potential AI displacement. Comments…","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:25:07.582Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gowers.wordpress.com/2026/09/17/why-i-didnt-sign-the-fields-medallists-letter","id":49738091,"rank":29,"title":"Why I didn’t sign the Fields medallists’ letter","url":"https://gowers.wordpress.com/2026/09/17/why-i-didnt-sign-the-fields-medallists-letter/","domain":"gowers.wordpress.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738091","by":"simianwords","score":248,"commentCount":358,"time":1789635111000,"short":"Gowers explains why he didn't sign a Fields medallists' letter warning against AI in mathematics, disagreeing with its framing that conceptual understanding should be the priority over problem-solving. He argues there's a spectrum of mathematical temperaments and worries more about social structures collapsing than AI flooding the field. Comments debate whether AI automating discovery harms human motivation and the profession's transmission to new generations.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:33.089Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://independent.co.uk/news/world/australasia/canda-eu-membership-australia-us-trade-b3050227.html","id":49734171,"rank":30,"title":"Australia says it could follow Canada in forging deeper ties with EU","url":"https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/australasia/canda-eu-membership-australia-us-trade-b3050227.html","domain":"independent.co.uk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49734171","by":"doener","score":245,"commentCount":212,"time":1789599408000,"short":"Australia's trade minister says the country could follow Canada in seeking closer EU ties amid US trade friction. The article notes Australia already has a free trade agreement with the EU (signed March 2024) and hasn't specified what deeper ties might entail. Comments emphasize Australia pragmatically pursues trade everywhere; many doubt concrete action given historical US alignment and question whether Australia has the political will for bold moves independent of Washington.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:11.382Z","age":"34 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-18T00-56Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-18 00:56 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-18T16-22Z/","children":["2026-09-18 16:22 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-18 08:29 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
