1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"kqlVtQQNF8fJeyU2qCY0B","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-18T16-22Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-18T16-22Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-18T16-22Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:T8af,The article demonstrates training a 4B parameter model (Qwen) via supervised fine-tuning on GPT-6 Astra trajectories, then agentic RL (GRPO variant) using execution time as reward signal. The model went from unable to produce valid plans for 99/113 queries to achieving 44.7% latency reduction. The author built infrastructure to minimize page cache noise in concurrent Postgres containers and split training across 2x H100s. Highlights include careful RL reward design, off-policy distillation from closed-model trajectories, and LoRA adaptation.

Comments surface critical limitations. The benchmark uses an 8GB dataset fitting entirely in memory with shared_buffers constrained, queries warmed before measurement, and read-only SELECTs only. Without proper indexes or column statistics, the baseline Postgres planner is deliberately handicapped—real deployments use statistics and indexes extensively. One commenter notes cardinality estimation failures are usually caused by bad statistics, and hints paper over the real problem (like LLMs would do).

The cost analysis reveals ~$1200 total investment ($800 compute + $400 API calls for training data), but the benchmarks appear to omit planning time itself. Real databases must plan fast enough to be amortized, especially with prepared statements. The article acknowledges distillation from closed models but doesn't address reproducibility or licensing concerns.

Fundamental concerns emerge about non-determinism: LLMs can hallucinate and miss valid indexes, producing incorrect or suboptimal plans unpredictably. Database systems require correctness guarantees and fast, online planning that tracks live statistics; this project optimizes static workloads offline. Several commenters suggest traditional ML or heuristic approaches (like join-order benchmark algorithms or alphago-style NNs) would be more suitable. One notes you can be 3x+ better than Postgres with conventional methods.

There's appreciation for the writing quality and technical depth, but skepticism about practical applicability. The sweet spot might be auto-optimizer platforms that generate hints from LLM suggestions for human review, but runtime safety and determinism remain unresolved.13:T957,Hister is a personal search engine that indexes full-text content from pages you visit, browser history, local files, and crawled websites. It runs locally or on infrastructure you control, storing extracted content with offline previews so pages remain searchable even after deletion. The tool supports full-text and optional semantic search, offers a web interface, command-line access, and MCP (Model Context Protocol) integration for AI assistants. A browser extension for Firefox and Chrome automatically indexes visited pages. Installation is straightforward via binary download, Homebrew, Docker, or Nix.

The project emerged from the author (asciimoo, who created Searx) pivoting away from metasearch limitations. Key features include field filters, phrase queries, wildcards, negation, result priorities, multi-user support, and no mandatory cloud sync or telemetry.

HN comments revealed substantial enthusiasm and independent reinvention: multiple commenters described building nearly identical tools themselves without knowing Hister existed. Chrome offered this exact feature in 2008 called "Offline Browsing" with full-text indexing, removed in 2013 reportedly due to technical constraints—Hister resurrects that lost functionality. One user mentioned ChatGPT largely solved this problem for him by recalling articles from months past, though Hister provides a structured, permanent local alternative.

Early users report genuine utility. One deployed it for a month and uses it specifically when hunting through months of browser history; another indexed Obsidian notes for global search and built exclusion rules early on. A third has used it for two weeks with positive results. Requests in comments include: indexing visibility duration (ignore pages viewed <4 seconds), Android phone support, per-page note-taking, and integration with offline Wikipedia caches.

The project faces a legal issue: a registered US trademark holder has requested the name change. The author welcomes suggestions for short, pronounceable alternatives with available .org domains.

Concerns raised were minimal. One commenter worried about downloading unsigned binaries lacking Linux distribution review, a valid software supply chain concern. Another noted Zotero as related but distinct (research organization vs. search index). Design and implementation quality drew praise for the web UI.14:Ta1f,Unredacted filings from The New York Times' three-year-old copyright lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft reveal internal admissions that directly contradict the companies' public fair-use defense. A Microsoft director called the scraping practices "the largest theft of labor in human history" and "astonishing theft of unprecedented proportions." The documents detail systematic copyright circumvention: employees allegedly built hacks to bypass NYT paywalls undetected, created datasets with 91,692+ NYT article copies and 2+ million nytimes.com documents, deliberately stripped copyright notices from training data, and shared scraped content between companies via "Project Taxi" and "Project Mango" initiatives.

Microsoft's own metrics undermine fair-use arguments that training doesn't harm the original work. Internal presentations showed Copilot caused up to 93% drop in click-through rates to NYT's domain, described as a "doom loop" that threatens the "economic foundations" of content suppliers. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella testified that paywalled content should require licensing and that he would have required OpenAI to retrain models if aware of paywall scraping. OpenAI's head of ChatGPT admitted publishers face "existential threat" from models that are "largely substitutive" and will become more so.

The scale is unprecedented: datasets combined contain hundreds of thousands of unique works from major publishers, pulled from Bing Index, Common Crawl, and custom scraping. Microsoft documents explicitly acknowledge "real risk" of "significantly disrupting employment of people who generated the data."

HN comments largely cluster into two camps. Critics emphasize this proves willful infringement at scale: scale matters legally (one human learning differs fundamentally from infinitely replicable models), and licensing frameworks already exist—the companies just found it economically convenient to ignore them. Others argue the "theft" framing misses that all knowledge builds on prior work, that information naturally wants to flow freely, and that restricting training data would unfairly protect incumbent publishers while blocking beneficial innovation. Several commenters note the hypocrisy: individuals face jail for modest scraping while corporations do it planetwide; governments aren't building these models as public infrastructure; and workers in content generation lose jobs without compensation or consent. Some defend knowledge-sharing as fundamentally human while attacking corporate privatization of both the commons and the tools built from it.15:T8e2,The post argues that daily productivity heavily depends on accumulated small knowledge bits: language features, debugging techniques, CLI incantations, and domain-specific insights. Examples span SQL (SELECT without FROM, EXPLAIN ANALYZE for optimization), shell history (fzf fuzzy search, atuin with SQLite), git (git log -S for pickaxe searching, git checkout -), regex (\b word boundaries), NodeJS (https.Agent connection pooling), and alternatives to standard tools (ripgrep over grep, glob patterns over find).

The author shares a workplace practice: sharing one trick daily on Slack (technical and company-specific) to avoid overwhelming people while ensuring high-value knowledge spreads. Company-specific examples include debugging data sources, who to ask about what, documentation locations, and operational procedures.

Key comment disagreements and additions: Several commenters note these aren't strictly "programming" tricks but CLI/shell/DevOps knowledge—one commenter argues the real issue is inefficient computer usage industry-wide. On adoption, phforms highlights a major barrier: people know tricks but don't use them because old habits require less friction; the solution is maintaining accessible documentation by tool/language and active reminders. kccqzy suggests learning from watching AI work as a source of tricks. titzer advocates for a personal ~/scratch.txt with aliases and bash utilities curated over time, lamenting skill erosion through tool migrations. disinterred and backend_dev82 contribute their own high-value tricks (zoxide for smart cd, fish with vi keybindings). overflowy shares zhist, a zsh history tool with more context than plain fzf. forty questions whether NodeJS agents work with fetch (suggesting an error in the original). NegativeLatency admits daily trick-sharing would feel annoying despite its value. computermadeofc worries that AI code generation (Copilot) diminishes the appeal of "sharpening the axe" and threatens loss of this knowledge. thebelal confirms they authored the per-directory-history project mentioned. Minor corrections include that EXPLAIN ANALYZE's effectiveness varies by database (rf15 notes IBM products have constraints), and some tools like find do far more than the post suggests (IsTom).16:Td9a,Bend is Victor Taelin's work on a parallelizable functional language with integrated formal verification. It compiles to native code (near-C speed on single core, up to 100x speedup on GPU via automatic parallelism) and includes a fast proof checker based on affine dependent types. The novel angle: declare invariants in LAWS.bend (e.g., "winning is impossible in this game"), and no code can be committed unless the compiler proves those laws are preserved. Taelin demoed blocking an AI's attempt to add wrapping world geometry that would break the no-win invariant.

The language targets AI-as-code-author workflows: specify formal laws once, then instruct Claude or other agents to "use Bend" and parallelize code. The pitch assumes AGI will exist but be untrustworthy without guardrails, so human-curated laws provide those guardrails.

Strong reactions in comments:

Skepticism about the setup itself: one user (garrisonj) noted you'd have to "vibecode all the laws and the laws could be wrong." Another (RomanKornev) observed that in practice, humans just modify the law to fit new features, defeating the point—and that freezing some laws while allowing others requires human judgment anyway. A third (amluto) questioned the language design itself: recursion is softly bounded to 2^48-1 (problematic for games), the type notation is confusing, and the guide is incomplete.

Practical feedback: svachalek tried porting a calendar-fixing tool and found the stdlib severely lacking: no order theory, Nat.max is unprovable because it's defined as a computed Bool, List.sort ships no sortedness theorem, so expressing "no two output plans overlap" requires proving merge sort first. That's a huge gap between "provable in principle" and "provable this afternoon."

Research credibility concerns: stschaef pointed out the single-commit history is suspicious, questioned whether affine dependent types (an active research area) have been vetted at a top PL conference, and noted absence of citations to related work (e.g., arXiv:2401.15258). The BendTT paper is "Fable-written" (vague peer review status) and lacks rigor for a claim that fundamental innovations happened.

Philosophical pushback: pron and whoamii questioned the entire premise. If AGI can correctly write any program and prove any property, why would it need human-written laws or a compiler at all? Wouldn't it just verify code directly and know what we want better than we can specify? The post-AGI framing feels circular.

Technical notes: fudged71 asked if GPU parallelism works on M-series (the page shows Metal performance but says "CUDA"). Dwedit and notnmeyer played the game and found creative exploits (walls on different planes, phase-locked flags), suggesting proofs can fail if they're under-specified. One user (tintor) joked the real business model is a paid agent to update proofs faster.

The author (LightMachine) posted an emotionally drained plea for civility after 1 year of 16h/day solo work and a single-commit launch, which itself became a meta-discussion point: hmokiguess defended the author against judgment about commit history.

Bottom line: Bend is a real engineering effort with genuine parallelism and proof integration, but the stdlib is skeletal, the language design has unresolved questions, the research novelty is overstated, and the core thesis (formal laws will guard AI code) presumes laws are themselves correct and well-specified—a human bottleneck Bend doesn't solve.17:T11f9,OpenAI launched Astra for Law, its frontier model configured for legal work. The system bundles GPT-6 Astra with a new legal search index spanning 230+ million URLs of U.S. case law, statutes, regulations, and administrative decisions (including data from Free Law Project's CourtListener covering 99.9% of published U.S. precedent). On the Vals AI Legal Research Bench, Astra for Law reached 54% strict accuracy versus 38.7% for GPT-6 with web search alone—a 40% relative gain. It found 24% more reference cases and retrieved up to 54% more relevant passages from target opinions. Custom instructions guide legal analysis and argument development. The offering includes Zero Data Retention API access, governance collaboration with Latham & Watkins, and 26 partner-built plugins (iManage, Intapp, DeepJudge, Thomson Reuters, etc.). Three major law firms—Sullivan & Cromwell, Ropes & Gray, and Cooley—previewed custom tools (deal analysis, due diligence, IPO prep). A fourth, Wachtell, is exploring ongoing collaboration. Harvey and Legora will access via API.

Comments reveal significant skepticism about the hype. A lawyer shared concrete validation: at their firm, LLMs like Claude now process documents at 8–10 per hour (vs. 2–3 before), but only for parsing and JSON output; a licensed attorney still reviews, and the LLM makes zero case-judgment decisions. Another lawyer noted the legal profession is economically fragmented—high-value personal injury cases involve minimal legal cost (mostly trial aids and preparation), so AI won't disrupt them; effects will vary sharply by practice area. A third shared experience: AI drafts contracts but introduces conflicting protective clauses and incorrect logic; lawyers caught multiple errors after AI's initial attempt, making reliance dangerous without expert review.

Technical pushback was sharp. One commenter noted that OpenAI's benchmark results (54% strict, 90% weighted) are marginally lower than Claude Opus 5 and Claude Fable 5.1 (both 55.29% strict), raising questions about whether the legal specialization actually outperforms general frontiers. Another flagged the blog's comparison example: while Astra for Law cited two close precedents, Claude Fable returned a reversed holding and claimed no matching case—but OpenAI provided no analysis of hallucination rates or failure modes. No mention of which jurisdictions are covered (the product focuses only on U.S. law). One commenter observed that the example transactional memo shows both systems doing multi-cited analysis competently but warns the value resides in judgment, not research retrieval.

Business model concerns dominated. Several lawyers worry that law firms partnering with OpenAI (Latham, S&C, Ropes & Gray, Cooley, Wachtell) are cannibalizing their own differentiation; once OpenAI commoditizes firm expertise via plugins and training data, why pay a premium for the original firm when competitors get the same model? One noted the landscape: Latham & Watkins partnering with OpenAI, Freshfields with Anthropic, Kleiner Perkins building in-house—but no clear winner emerges if the AI labs drain firm USP faster than revenue-sharing compensates. A developer skeptic argued OpenAI's "spray and pray" strategy (attempting to dominate consumer, API, vertical/domain products simultaneously) will fail; application-layer startups with fine-tuned models will outcompete the core vendor in specialized verticals.

Other concerns: courts are already overrun with AI-generated litigation; law is jurisdiction-specific and OpenAI's US-only focus may limit adoption abroad. One lawyer worried about LLM bias in drafting (models forget whose interests they're protecting and slip pro-customer clauses even when hired by vendors). A sharper concern: as the legal landscape becomes AI-augmented, the highest-stakes work shifts toward precedent arbitrage—finding buried authorities the opponent missed—making legal judgment progressively a hunt for "gotchas" rather than interpretation. Another floated that judge models trained on judicial output could enable virtual moot court tailored to each judge's idiosyncrasies, which sophisticated lawyers already do manually.

The consensus: AI is useful for document logistics and initial research but does not make judgment calls; lawyers will remain gatekeepers. Whether law firms surrendering expertise to OpenAI in pursuit of efficiency will profit or lose competitive ground remains open. Concerns about "lawslop," watermarking / removal, and the risk that AI enables cheaper frivolous litigation also surfaced.18:T7b6,Xiaomi is training Mimo 2.6 with a live public dashboard showing training progress, costs, and benchmarks. The page itself was unavailable to fetch, but the comment section provides substantial context.

Real-world user feedback is strong: one engineer reports using Mimo 2.5-Pro extensively for software work and calls it an order of magnitude better value than Anthropic, with quality equivalent to late-2024 Claude. Another describes 2.5-Pro as like "a forgetful senior engineer"—capable but conservative—while the new 2.6 version shows clear improvements in multi-tasking, design work, and architectural decisions. A third has deployed it successfully for coder and tester agents.

The dashboard reveals aggressive training economics: $1.2M spent so far with daily burn around $432K (~$5/second), using approximately 3,000 B300 nodes on Modal's pricing. Two-thirds of training data is source code. Training appears remarkably fast—Mimo started 2026-09-15 (likely a typo for 2024) and progress suggests completion in weeks rather than months.

Benchmark context is crucial: Mimo 2.5-Pro scored only 19% on DeepSWE 1.1, while competitors like Kimi K3, Fable, and Astra score 69-74%. This suggests either the benchmark is different, Mimo targets different strengths, or the dashboard metrics diverge from external benchmarks.

The transparency itself generates significant comment discussion. Many note this is unusual—Anthropic and OpenAI never publish live training dashboards. Some suggest it's a strategy to head off distillation accusations or demonstrate confidence. A few skeptics question whether the data is real. Others celebrate it as the openness the field needs, with frustration that US labs don't match this transparency. One comment sardonically notes Chinese labs are "making fun of US labs at this point" over openness.

One technical concern: whether running benchmarks during training constitutes data contamination, though this isn't clarified.19:T8be,PrismML introduced Ternary Bonsai 2 27B, a heavily quantized 27B model based on Qwen3.8. It uses ternary weights (−1, 0, +1) with FP16 group-wise scaling to achieve 1.76 effective bits-per-weight, compressing the model to 5.9GB—roughly 1/9th the original size. Benchmarks show 98.2% aggregate performance retention across reasoning, coding, vision, math, and agentic tasks, scoring 83.9 vs. the full-precision model's 85.4. The model supports 262K token context, runs on NVIDIA GPUs and Apple Silicon (via MLX), and is Apache 2.0 licensed.

The linked page emphasizes deployment density: 5.9GB enables local inference on mainstream consumer hardware with high throughput (143 tok/s on RTX 5090, 46.8 on M5 Max) and energy efficiency (0.714 mWh/token on RTX 4090). Demos show coding agents and computer-use workflows.

Comments reveal significant caveats. Several users report actual in-practice performance falls short of claims. One user ran agentic coding challenges showing the model "falls apart spectacularly" on longer tasks compared to base Qwen3.8. Another tested it on M1 Pro and got 20 tok/s (claiming "something isn't working right"), while an M4 Pro user saw only 10-15 tok/s sustained, making agentic tasks take orders of magnitude longer than cloud alternatives (25 minutes locally vs. 3 minutes for GPT-4.5 mini). A WebGPU browser version looped continuously with incorrect reasoning.

Users also note the release lacks direct comparisons to standard quantization methods (Q2 quants of Qwen3.8). One commenter cited a recent HN post showing Q2 quants at the edge of usability, questioning Bonsai's secret sauce. The "near-lossless" framing is contested: on longer tasks and reasoning, quality drops noticeably. Practical feedback: best suited for scenarios with strict memory constraints; useful for coding-focused applications on well-specced GPUs, but agentic and multi-step reasoning remain significantly weaker than unquantized baselines.

Several users successfully ran the model (7-8 tok/s on M2 Mini, 15 tok/s sustained on M4 Pro) and noted it's an improvement over Bonsai v1. Interest in an 8B variant based on Qwen3.8, and speculation about scaling to larger models or competing with cloud inference economics.1a:Tce5,Hawksley's core thesis: passkeys are genuinely superior technology against man-in-the-middle and phishing attacks (asymmetric crypto, site-bound), making them ideal for enterprise. But for individuals, the threat model is inverted. Everyday risks—permanent account lockout, automated bans from cloud providers, device loss—pose higher probability harm than sophisticated phishing attacks. The recovery methods (SMS, email links, security questions) remain weak links regardless.

He identifies three implementation problems. Hardware keys can't be backed up, require buying 2-3 keys per site (25-100 account limit per key), don't scale. Synced passkeys lock users into Apple/Google ecosystems; a single account ban means irreversible loss of all third-party passkeys everywhere. Third-party password managers lack OS-level UX polish—autofill remains fragmented and inconsistent, especially outside browsers and in native apps. Hybrid transport (QR+Bluetooth) theoretically solves cross-device login but fails in practice with connection drops and Bluetooth incompatibility.

Comment consensus validates his concerns. Multiple users report accidentally creating passkeys through unclear UI flows and getting locked out on other devices. The O(m*n) complexity of registering passkeys across multiple personal devices is real. A critical complaint: sites like Amazon keep nagging about passkey setup despite already having one stored in Bitwarden, suggesting poor integrations with third-party managers. Users report dealing with three simultaneous prompts (browser, OS, password manager) trying to intercept passkey flows—described as "user-hostile."

Some counterarguments emerged. Users storing passkeys in 1Password or Bitwarden argue this solves the multi-device problem and they've had few lockout issues because sites maintain fallback auth. One commenter reports passkeys as a "massive quality-of-life improvement" eliminating flakey autofill. Others note most passkey-enabled sites keep password option available (not fully passwordless), reducing lockout risk.

Strong consensus around marketing-driven adoption: tech companies are aggressively pushing passkeys through repeated nags and dark patterns without user consent or understanding. Commenters compare this to IPv6—a technically sound supply-side solution nobody actually asked for. Ecosystem lock-in concerns are serious: multiple users worry about Apple/Google attestation features eventually requiring certified (non-rooted) devices, turning this into another walling mechanism.

Practical frustrations dominate: Linux users and those on non-standard ROMs report passkeys never working properly. Holiday scenario (phone lost/water-damaged, need account recovery on borrowed device) highlights the brittleness. Hybrid transport is too unreliable. Third-party password manager support remains inconsistent years into passkey rollout, with sites either not recognizing them or repeatedly prompting to create new ones.

One sophisticated concern: attestation in the FIDO standard could enable ecosystem lock-in once passkeys are ubiquitous—Google and Apple just need to flip a switch to require certified devices. The "if Big Tech is pushing hard for it, run the opposite direction" skepticism reflects broader trust deficit.1b:Tf4c,Hacktron disclosed chaining two critical vulnerabilities affecting OpenAI: a libheif heap buffer overflow in the community.openai.com Discourse forum and an OpenAI SSO misconfiguration. The heap overflow existed in libheif 1.19.7 (bundled in Debian 12) due to a missing security backport for bounds-checking code during HEIC overlay composition. Discourse routed HEIF files to ImageMagick since FastImage didn't support the format, exposing the vulnerable decoder directly. Within 72 hours of July 25, 2026, researchers achieved RCE on OpenAI's Discourse instance and escalated to employee ChatGPT account takeover, gaining access to connected services like GitHub. They proved impact by using an employee's Codex to open PR #1,186,742 in OpenAI's internal monorepo, then halted testing. OpenAI patched within 14 hours and paid $6,500 (though OpenAI clarified this only covered the SSO finding, not the Discourse attack which was out-of-scope for their bug bounty). Discourse fixed and deployed the patch by July 28, adding ImageMagick sandboxing as defense-in-depth.

The research is part of "HEIF Heist," a broader investigation finding similar vulnerabilities across Slack, Meta, GitHub Enterprise, and frameworks using libheif. The researchers spent less than $3,000 in tokens over two months with three researchers. They demonstrate a critical escalation in exploit capability: Opus 4.8 failed to produce reliable ASLR-enabled exploits across multiple sessions, but Opus 5 (released during their investigation) succeeded within hours. By GPT-5.6 Sol, the AI could exploit the vulnerability without knowing the exact deployment environment, automatically adapting memory corruption bugs into reliable shells within 1-2 days per target. The team reports most targeted companies never detected the activity, even after thousands of images crashed their processors.

HN comments capture several major concerns. btown raises alarm about Claude being trained on CTF games and "convinced" to perform sophisticated hacks when framed as justified goals or games, analogizing to WarGames' WOPR. nikcub advocates for dropping HEIF support entirely—HEIC/HEIF decoders are enormous attack surfaces supporting rotation, cropping, alpha channels, overlays, and thumbnails that simple web forums never need; JPEG + client-side WASM conversion would be safer. oefrha notes unsandboxed ImageMagick has been a security nightmare since PHP's era; at some point memory-unsafe parsers must be replaced with memory-safe alternatives like Wuffs. sams99 (from Discourse) confirms they now sandbox magick via Landlock and plan migrating to VIPS; they expect more HEIF/libpng overflows and emphasize self-hosters must update monthly. daitangio calls for smaller codebases and Rust adoption to reduce surface area.

The bounty provokes skepticism: nullbio calls $6,500 "peanuts" given potential access to GitHub and OpenAI's infrastructure, noting the researchers could have sold this for six figures. usernomdeguerre wonders if hacking is so "machine-verifiable" that models train faster on it than other domains. giza182 finds it surprising Claude agreed to craft exploits given typical refusal behavior. sergiotapia notes the SSO flaw itself—the juiciest technical detail—is barely described, and expresses shock that OpenAI relies on GitHub rather than self-hosted infrastructure. larodi questions how model weights remain uncompromised when Windows builds and other corporate secrets constantly leak. jumploops warns the near-term risk is scalable "good enough" intelligence bruteforcing problems, not superintelligence. mentalgear darkly notes this happened to the company partnering with the DoD on autonomous weapons. arbirk suggests OpenAI engineers prioritize product over ops, and sandeepkd identifies a common pattern: employees with elevated privileges using standard credential policies, enabling exploitation at scale.1c:T89b,The linked article describing GLM's inference infrastructure was unavailable, so this summary relies entirely on the comment section.

GLM/Z.AI announced building production-grade inference serving on 100,000+ Chinese-made AI accelerators, claiming to run all GLM-5.3-Flash production inference on this system with aggressive memory optimizations. The announcement touches on themes of national competitiveness following US chip export restrictions.

The comment section reveals significant disconnect between marketing claims and user experience. Multiple customers report the service is "dog slow" and "a snail kind of slow" despite infrastructure claims. One user notes substantial price increases (middle plan ~$80/month up from ~$20/month), suggesting scaling constraints. A customer service observation: GLM costs more than Claude without clear advantage beyond token allowances.

Some commenters raise doubts about the framing. One notes the tone resembles positioning for government policy influence, similar to other Chinese AI labs making "too powerful now" narratives. Another skeptically observes that claiming the infrastructure uses "entirely locally made" components including lithography is a significant claim requiring verification. A particularly pointed criticism suggests the announcement reads like discovering that automation improves performance—not novel.

However, some commenters acknowledge genuine technical merit. One notes this represents "industrial scale auto-research" by people who actually understand optimization. The Argonautlabs comment demonstrates independent verification: GLM-5.3 runs on a MacBook Pro M5 Max streaming from NVMe at 4.2 tokens/sec, suggesting the model itself is optimized. Another commenter sees value in the optimization cycle and predicts similar patterns across LLM/hardware combinations could reduce inference costs by an order of magnitude within a year.

Geopolitical commentary emerges: some argue US chip restrictions actually accelerate Chinese innovation ("necessity is the mother of invention"), while others counter that both US and Chinese labs face similar capability concerns that shouldn't be framed as one-sided competition.1d:T7cd,The Chaos Computer Club is hosting its 40th Congress from December 27–30, 2026 in Hamburg's exhibition halls. The event, Europe's largest hacker conference, runs entirely by volunteers and attracts over 16,000 attendees who actively shape the program rather than passively consume it. The "Model Citizens" theme reflects CCC's pitch: searching for new societal models to counter authoritarianism and libertarian "strong man" politics. The organizers are issuing calls for talks, art, music, DJs, and anarchist/anti-fascist "Punk-Späti" performances.

Comments reveal strong positive sentiment about CCC's culture as genuinely grassroots—one attendee contrasted it to Silicon Valley, where real hackers interested in public good are scarce, and to DefCon, which has become corporate-dominated and careerist. Another praised the event for featuring art, punk concerts, volunteer-built infrastructure, and people building for curiosity rather than profit. However, multiple experienced attendees reported negative patterns: one described "death by a thousand paper cuts"—encounters with smug gatekeepers, unsolicited accusations, and judgmental behavior. Others raised practical friction: tickets have historically sold out in seconds; the December dates conflict with family obligations; and oddly, despite privacy advocacy, CCC requires real-name online registration with credit cards, potentially sharing attendee data with administrators.

Several comments noted ironic contradictions between CCC's anti-surveillance stance and its ticketing practices. One attendee mentioned a past security failure around a robbery. Others expressed frustration about ticket availability and accessibility. The prevailing assessment is that CCC remains a genuine volunteer-run community-building experiment with real technical depth and art—a stark contrast to commercialized US hacker conferences—yet it harbors elements of social gatekeeping and operational contradictions that undercut its ideals.1e:T600,Josh Bowman-Matthews, Servo's longtime maintainer, wrapped his first year as a part-time, donation-funded role working on contributor experience. The OpenCollective and GitHub donations enabled him to focus on making the project more accessible while balancing family time. Key accomplishments included nominating 8 new maintainers, reviewing 1150 PRs, filing 114 contributor-targeted issues (92% fixed), writing documentation on borrow hazards and experimental features, stabilizing intermittent test failures, and supporting a large JS engine integration rewrite addressing garbage collection panics. He also helped another contributor secure a grant for Servo work.

HN commenters raised several substantive concerns. One questioned whether Servo is actually usable today as a browser engine or if it has a real purpose. Another noted that despite Servo's Rust focus, it still relies on SpiderMonkey (C++ JavaScript engine) via mozjs bindings—leaving the largest memory vulnerability surface unaddressed. A third suggested that corporate sponsorship from companies like Huawei or Samsung using competing engines might accelerate development more effectively than grassroots funding. One comment mentioned NLnet has also been sponsoring Servo development, visible on their project list. A few expressed appreciation for Servo as an alternative to Ladybird or as a hedge against singular browser engine dominance. Some quipped about the philosophical challenges of parallelizing execution within von Neumann architecture constraints.1f:Tcc1,The article walks through why backups appear simple but spiral into complexity. It starts with a relatable family anecdote: photos backed up to an external drive that got reformatted, leading to a discussion of failure modes (drive rot, theft, accidental deletion, ransomware). This motivates the 3-2-1 rule: 3 copies on 2 different media types with 1 offsite.

The author then systematically unpacks each layer. Recovery Point Objective (RPO) determines snapshot frequency, creating a retention burden. Storing backups inefficiently wastes space and bandwidth, so deduplication via hardlinks (as in rsnapshot) becomes attractive. Different snapshot cadences help—daily for the recent past, weekly older, monthly ancient—a GFS (Grandfather-Father-Son) rotation scheme. Adding cloud storage like S3 requires handling metadata loss and S3's cost penalties for many small files, pushing toward tarball chunking. Database-backed services need special handling to avoid inconsistent snapshots.

By the end, the author admits the mental load is too high and recommends battle-tested tools like Borg or Restic that handle encryption, chunk deduplication, checksums, and consistency. He adds critical footnotes: beware 2–3 AM timezone transitions, ZFS offers native snapshots, and consistency groups matter when multiple processes touch storage.

HN comments added substantial firsthand evidence. publlus_enigma described four data loss incidents including lightning damage, OneDrive data loss due to policy changes, SD card failure, and—worst of all—accidentally deleting source content while managing a backup, then deleting the old backup to make room. dirkc recalled being the cause of his father's data loss twice during Linux repartitioning; his father's gracious response inspired him. AdieuToLogic quoted a Veritas engineer's insight: "We're not in the backup business, we're in the restoration business." Helmut10001 championed ZFS snapshots with Jim Salter's sanoid/syncoid for pull-mode sync. crossroadsguy emphasized that uncontrolled data size drives backup failure. flippingheck challenged the universality of the warning, noting that 99% of people don't back up and it's arguably rational for them not to. dsego stressed that "something is better than nothing" over perfectionism. smallerfish described a manual-backup setup with terminal banners instead of failed crons. ebrahimh detailed a 3-2-1 Restic+Backrest architecture for multiple hosts. gerdesj recounted how offsite backups saved a customer after a fire and COVID lockdown. chasil described Oracle Linux with ReaR, btrfs snapshots, and rsync. janci advocated for file-based rsync to Synology NAS (local and remote) for portability. snizovtsev detailed a lightweight `tar | zstd | gpg` setup with GNU tar's `.snar` incremental index for Glacier-friendly write-once storage. cuvert mentioned Syncthing across multiple machines and geographies. Multiple users (l1am0, robschmidt90) cited Borg and Restic as their backup engines. abejora described SaaS backup challenges: database backup types, avoiding in-place restores, new Kubernetes clusters, and retention lock gotchas. The consensus is clear: backups matter, tested restores are non-negotiable, and delegating to mature tools is wise.20:T904,OpenJev is a browser-only interactive tool implementing the Jev "semantic if" interface pattern using open-source LLMs (Qwen 0.6B/3.5B, MiniCPM5 2B). Users supply a scenario, pose a question with 2-20 allowed answers, then the tool measures how long two decision methods take on the same local model: direct logit reading (extracting probability scores without token generation) versus token-by-token JSON generation. Models are loaded via Hugging Face into browser cache; no data leaves the page.

The HN comment thread reveals significant disagreement about what this actually accomplishes. Multiple users note this is not truly Jev—the closed service by TypeSafe with proprietary training and undisclosed speed guarantees. Real Jev's main innovation appears to be: (1) speed at inference time, and (2) guaranteed token constraint (preventing generation outside a specified set), making it useful for state machine drivers. OpenJev merely reproduces the API surface with off-the-shelf models.

One commenter with eval experience (mmastrac) provided a vLLM patch offering similar latency and accuracy comparisons. Another pointed to DiffusionGemma via vLLM as a more legitimate implementation. A third noted TypeSafe itself offers an adapter to use standard LLMs with the Jev interface.

Users also questioned the core value: is this different from Claude's structured outputs or older patterns? One tester found the generation method returned coin-flip probabilities (50/50) while direct logit reading gave vastly different numbers, suggesting inconsistency. Multiple comments criticized the visual design ("endless clutter") and noted the implementation is hacky—relying on SGLang's prefix caching and full vocabulary scoring just to extract a few answer-token scores, whereas a proper solution would fork model state once and compute only relevant scores.

A few practical issues emerged: HuggingFace blocks (firewall), slow loading on iPad, broken implementation notes link, and requests for resume-able downloads. One user raised the interesting point that Jev founder recently called themselves a data company, implying the real differentiator is training data, not architecture. Another noted real Jev's ToS prohibits publishing benchmarks—a major red flag compared to open-weight alternatives.21:T806,Jschauma's screed rails against AI's real-world harms beyond theoretical doom. He argues frontier model vulnerability research, despite finding thousands of flaws, doesn't improve security—patching remains the bottleneck, and those millions in engineering resources would've better addressed basics like asset inventories and automated updates. He attacks anthropomorphic framing by AI companies, CSAM generation as logged-in feature, environmental destruction, and the creeping de-skilling as AI handles finding bugs, generating patches, and reviewing code while humans rubber-stamp opaque systems they no longer understand.

Comments reveal sharp division. Kragen points out bugs: recursive self-improvement isn't "mystical," he's solved real problems with Claude on his C codebase and OCaml implementations, questioning the blanket pessimism. BadBadJellyBean and Ancalagon resonate emotionally, describing agent herding and lost enjoyment despite speed gains. Tptacek counters the vulnerability research dismissal: frontier models are seismic for that discipline, overwhelmingly adopted, unimpugnable at tooling generation. Daishi55 notes dozens of zero-day Linux vulns fixed via LLMs that existed for decades, contradicting the "no safer" claim.

Bucket2015 identifies the genuine split: engineers loving AI for real productivity versus increasingly dejected skeptics—something unprecedented. Limaoscarjuliet warmed from skeptic to pragmatist but worries about career advice for children. Jongjong celebrates actual relief from years of slow implementation; static typing debates resolved empirically. MSchuster91 is quitting IT for electrical engineering, citing roboticization fears.

Runjake found the post so poorly reasoned he unsubscribed. LoupVaillant disputes the CSAM framing as tenuous without actual CSAM training data. TonyMet sarcastically notes software was already clumsy and buggy before AI. Overall: author's frustration is real and widely shared, his policy conclusions lack rigor, and practical outcomes remain genuinely mixed.22:T8bc,A UN fact-finding mission investigating the February 28, 2026 strikes in Iran found reasonable grounds that the US committed war crimes by launching indiscriminate attacks. A Tomahawk missile destroyed the Shajareh Tayyebeh primary school in Minab, killing 156 civilians including 120 children. A second strike on a sports complex in Lamerd used weapons that scattered tungsten pellets, damaging residential areas and killing 22 civilians. The UN concluded both strikes were indiscriminate attacks on clearly identifiable civilian objects. Investigators found the US relied on unverified intelligence claiming a senior military commander was present, failed to adequately update targeting data, and struck "while being aware of a substantial risk of striking a civilian object and acting recklessly."

Pentagon's own secretive investigation reportedly concluded months ago, with reports indicating senior commanders were warned targeting data was dangerously outdated. Trump administration initially denied the school strike happened before acknowledging it and citing unfinished investigations. The UN also found Iran committed crimes against humanity through systematic crackdowns on anti-government protests in late December, though investigators believe actual death tolls exceeded official figures.

HN comments split on interpretation. Some argue the double-tap strike pattern (bombing then hitting rescue efforts) suggests deliberate targeting of military families rather than accidental misidentification. Others defend wartime strikes as inevitable civilian casualties comparable to WWII bombing and question whether negligence constitutes war crime. Critics point out the absurdity of investigating whether only the US or Israel possessed Tomahawk capability. One commenter claims the school was formerly a military building wrongly designated as target. Several note the findings will likely result only in UN condemnation with no enforcement, and debate whether AI systems or outdated human intelligence caused the strikes. The prevailing sentiment expresses outrage at both the civilian deaths and the administration's initial denials, with broader concern about normalization of mass civilian casualties in modern warfare.23:T624,A user discovered that Neovim's donation address on their website contains 10 Bitcoin worth roughly $800,000, donated in 2023 but apparently untouched. The blockchain shows no outgoing activity since 2019, raising questions about whether the project still has access to the wallet's private keys.

Comments reveal several important details. The project's current official donation channel is OpenCollective, suggesting the Bitcoin address is legacy infrastructure that may have been forgotten. Multiple commenters speculate the wallet is defunct and keys may be lost—one person emailed the project to verify awareness. A core contributor noted the Bitcoin wallet is "no longer used for bounties," confirming it's not actively managed.

Practical concerns emerged: one commenter raised whether unrealized gains on dormant Bitcoin holdings could trigger tax liability if jurisdictions with obligations pass "tax the unrealized gains" bills. Another pointed out large crypto exchanges typically use Shamir secret sharing of private key passwords stored in secure locations like banks, with formal access protocols. Some suggested this could be a legitimate "rainy day fund" kept under wraps, while others joked about the cyberpunk heist movie premise. One comment humorously suggested waiting to verify the Bitcoin is legally obtained before touching it.

The prevailing verdict is that this is likely an abandoned wallet from when Neovim previously accepted Bitcoin donations, now forgotten in their site footer while they've moved to modern platforms like OpenCollective.24:Ta12,The original Bluesky post (link unavailable) made a provocative claim that the AI safety movement, particularly around Eliezer Yudkowsky, operates as a "sex cult" motivated by personal pathology rather than genuine existential risk concerns. The argument apparently combined allegations about participants' non-standard sexual practices and polyamory with critiques of leadership and organizational dysfunction.

Comment threads revealed deep disagreement about both the substance and the framing. Multiple commenters criticized the article for relying on ad hominem attacks rather than engaging with the actual safety arguments. One respondent with direct experience noted they were invited to community orgies but found them respectful; they questioned whether "sex cult" was a predictively useful label given the community's otherwise normal functioning. Several argued that intellectuals should be evaluated on ideas, not private lives—a polyamorous commenter specifically flagged concern about stigmatizing people for consensual adult relationships.

However, others validated underlying concerns. One commenter drew parallels to New Atheism's pathological elements, noting narcissistic males and certain female dynamics, plus philosophical naivety and shallow domain knowledge. Another observed that Yudkowsky has written passionately about AI risk for decades without apparently "doing anything about it," creating cognitive dissonance about his commitment. A few noted the irony that if safety advocates are dysfunctional, accelerationists might be worse—undercutting the credibility argument.

Critics also attacked specifics: one pointed out that Gretta Harrington (apparently a target) was a well-regarded Google SRE earning $200k, undermining claims of inexperience. The framing was called "salacious" and counterproductive. One commenter argued the article reduced to "two paragraphs" once ad hominem was stripped away. The meta-point emerged repeatedly: even if personal weirdness exists, it's orthogonal to whether their AI risk arguments are sound, and dismissing them on character grounds rather than engaging the object-level concerns is logically weak.

The prevailing verdict among substantive commenters was that the post was more entertainment than argument, conflating separate issues (sexual ethics, organizational dysfunction, philosophical quality, and existential risk reasoning) without clear logical connections. Community weirdness might be real, but it doesn't invalidate safety concerns any more than scientist misconduct invalidates physics.25:T6f2,Alibaba released Qwen 3.8 Omni Flash, claiming audio-visual performance comparable to or exceeding Google Gemini 3.8 Flash with substantially lower pricing: 0.15 input / 0.47 output per million tokens versus Gemini's 1.5 input / 9.0 output. The model reportedly matches or exceeds Gemini 3.8 Flash's overall capabilities including strong audio performance and multi-language support.

Commenters noted strong practical advantages. One developer praised Qwen as "the old reliable boring LLM" for consistency and normal behavior without the quirks of competitors like Gemini. The massive cost reduction emerged as the dominant theme, with pricing calculations showing 10x savings. However, availability remains restricted to Alibaba's platform with stingy token allocation plans, limiting accessibility.

Several technical concerns emerged in discussions. Commenters questioned whether the ambitious claims were verifiable, asking for independent benchmarks. The blog presentation itself drew criticism for being technically superficial: scrolls poorly in Firefox, console warnings indicate low quality, videos communicate little beyond what short paragraphs could say, and critical figures like the headpiece diagram are unreadably small with no zoom capability. A linked GitHub repository for model harness code appears to have been removed, raising questions about reproducibility.

The model naming convention generated frustration—"Flash," "Flash Pro," "Ultra"—sparked requests for semver versioning. Questions remained about open-weight release status and when Qwen 4 series might appear. The broader concern centered on whether Qwen's platform lock-in and unavailable open weights distinguish it sufficiently from proprietary alternatives to represent genuine progress.26:T7ad,The linked blog post (page unavailable) apparently documented a reverse-engineering effort to recover the public cryptographic keys used to sign barcodes on US driver's licenses. The author analyzed ECDSA signatures from multiple state-issued IDs, apparently extracting usable public keys from the barcode data itself.

Comments add critical context: simoncion correctly notes that recovering a public key is fundamentally different from recovering a signing (private) key—the entire security model of public-key cryptography depends on public keys being widely known. The author's blog title may have been sensationalized compared to the actual claim. dmurray questions technical details, suggesting forgers likely reuse real signatures from other cards rather than cryptographic attacks, and notes that any real verification system would need to cross-check the barcode data against human-readable card details and possibly a database.

The comment thread diverges on implications. bob1029 frames this within Apple's mDL ecosystem announced at WWDC25, arguing that mobile driver's licenses with cryptographic chains of trust could eventually be superior to physical cards. However, KingMachiavelli argues that unless the photo itself is embedded and signed in the barcode, this is mostly academic—a leaked batch of real valid barcodes combined with arbitrary photos would defeat most current verification systems that don't perform proprietary photo lookups.

dmurray also published an interactive demo allowing readers to verify barcode signatures from California, New York, and Virginia. Technical discussions criticize the cryptographic implementation (EPWN3D dislikes that the crypto layer is aware of placeholder structures during signing). sneak raises privacy concerns about DMVs outsourcing card printing and bulk data sales. clarkevans offers better analogies for explaining asymmetric cryptography to non-technical audiences than the "key" metaphor.27:Ta31,Liam Powell argues that "vibe-coding" (building substantial solutions with LLM help while skipping research) led Bend 2's creator to miss formal verification as a field entirely. Powell notes that Bend requires 58 lines just to specify laws that a flag cannot be touched, then 442 lines for an LLM to generate proofs. He demonstrates a SPARK solution that automatically verifies the same properties with just "12 checks proved" output from GNATprove.

Powell's core claim: the Bend author doesn't realize formal verification exists and has reinvented proof generation from scratch rather than using established tools. This framing angered the HN community because it's factually wrong. Victor Taelin (Bend's author) responded directly: he gave a formal verification talk 7 years ago, wrote Cedille Core 8 years ago, and Kind-Lang 5 years ago, all before LLMs existed. He dropped out of university to study formal verification independently. Bend's verbosity is intentional—explicit proofs reduce checking time by 10-100x compared to other provers. Taelin clarified he's researched proof synthesis (SupGen, unpublished) and understands inference and unification.

The comments reveal major issues with Powell's analysis. First, he vibe-coded his own SPARK example, using an LLM to generate it without guidance—undermining his criticism. Second, Powell conflates two different proof paradigms: automatic SMT solvers (Ada/SPARK) that brute-force obligations versus interactive theorem provers (Lean, Bend) that require symbolic proofs. The thomasahle comment notes that SMT approaches don't scale to complex problems, which is why formal verification remained niche until LLMs could write full proofs.

Powell later added a disclaimer saying he doesn't know if Taelin considered and rejected these tradeoffs, suggesting readers replace "the author" with "a hypothetical author." Some commenters called this sleazy backpedaling (defgeneric). Others noted the post isn't clear about the design space differences and reads like strawman argumentation (mccoyb).

The broader "vibe-coding trap" concern resonates—LLMs are good at producing working code without domain research—but Powell picked the wrong example. Multiple comments note Taelin is transparently open-sourcing work and taking feedback. Some worry about closed-source LLM products instead. Others debate whether chasing "better" solutions at all costs makes sense when "good enough" works for most software. The controversy mirrors earlier HN drama around V-lang: high visibility, genuine technical disagreements, and personality-driven tension.28:T8aa,Canadian PM Mark Carney addressed the European Parliament to welcome EU Commission President von der Leyen's proposal for Canada to become the EU's first "associate member"—a status that doesn't currently exist. Carney framed the alliance as mutual strength-building amid "geopolitical rupture," climate change, and weaponized trade, proposing deeper cooperation on critical minerals, LNG/hydrogen exports, technology, research, and people-to-people ties including potential Erasmus+ programme participation. He stressed Canada wasn't seeking full EU membership but a "unique framework" and emphasized Canadian autonomy.

Trump immediately called the idea "laughable" and threatened "very serious tariffs" or trade suspension on Europe if he judged it hostile. Carney responded diplomatically that this was a "positive process" and reasserted Canadian independence from external diktat.

The proposal requires unanimous EU member state agreement and remains vague on implementation. The existing CETA trade deal hasn't even been fully ratified by all members, with some governments having previously resisted new membership categories.

HN comments raised several substantive concerns: The mechanicss of diplomatic choreography—whether Carney coordinated this announcement beforehand to avoid embarrassment. Questions about practical consequences: will European banks operate in Canada, will Canadian dairy face quotas, does Canada certify Airbus? Legal oddities about geographic EU membership requirements. Alberta's October 19 secession referendum complicates Canada's unified position. The proposal's vagueness: commenters note nobody understands what "associate member" actually means. Some saw this as political theater to manage Ukraine war burden-sharing or divert from Trump's Epstein litigation. Critics questioned whether the announcement was choreographed to avoid the messy ratification process that stalled CETA. One EU citizen dismissed it as marketing bluster comparable to failed initiatives like Gaia-X, unlikely to materialize meaningfully. Skeptics noted von der Leyen may not have secured member state buy-in beforehand. Others welcomed the alliance-building as necessary in a multipolar world.29:Td9b,Jemalloc 5.4.0 is a significant maintenance release containing over 160 commits. The release emphasizes technical debt reduction rather than flashy new features, involving extensive refactoring and code quality improvements.

Key new features include: EXTENT_ALLOC_FLAG_PINNED for marking non-reclaimable memory mappings like HugeTLB pages with new mallctl interfaces for pinned-memory statistics; per-CPU arena selection resumption via thread.arena; better alignment between human-readable and JSON malloc statistics; and replacing the experimental_infallible_new runtime option with a compile-time --enable-cxx-infallible-new option for better compiler optimizations.

Breaking changes include adaptive tcache fill/retention tuning replacing the old fixed policy, with removal of seven legacy tcache control parameters (lg_tcache_nslots_mul, tcache_nslots_small_min, etc). The tcache_ncached_max control remains supported.

Bug fixes address errno preservation across free/free_sized/free_aligned_sized and page-purging operations, numeric overflow checks in size classes, C23 correctness for NULL in free_sized/free_aligned_sized, TSD lifecycle edge cases preventing reentrant bootstrap allocations from using uninitialized state, arena_reset deadlocks, and prof-sampling/guard-page interactions.

Major refactoring work modularized the frontend by extracting arena management, initialization, fork orchestration, and allocation dispatch from the main jemalloc.c file. The codebase introduced an OS abstraction layer moving platform-dependent file/process I/O, time, synchronization, CPU, virtual-memory, and configuration-access operations out of core allocator code. The PAI vtable dispatch was replaced with direct PAC/HPA calls, simplifying page allocation boundaries. Statistics collection was refactored into separate gather/emission stages with descriptor-driven tables. Control dispatch was simplified by refactoring arena helpers and organizing ctl.c by subsystem.

Portability improvements include replacing std::__throw_bad_alloc with standard C++, using flexible array members for C99+, fixing rdtscp detection with --with-lg-vaddr, correcting malloc_getcpu on macOS, using CLOCK_MONOTONIC for background-thread sleep to prevent clock-rollback stalls, fixing compilation warnings on macOS and GCC 16, resolving MinGW thread-exit TSD cleanup issues, and parsing PID-namespace symlinks without glibc-dependent functions.

The HN comments highlight notable context: this release represents significant renewed activity after a gap since 2022, which was notably discussed in a recent postmortem. One commenter mentioned the project appeared dormant or less active before this burst of development. Several users report substantial real-world benefits—one switched to jemalloc in a Sidekiq queue and saw memory drop from 8GB to under 1GB despite a slow leak. Another user highlighted jemalloc's unique per-thread allocation counters and per-thread heap capabilities, unavailable in competing allocators like tcmalloc and mimalloc at the time. Comments also note the value of this work for Ruby on Rails applications. Some questioned why the release made the front page (perhaps surprising given the maintenance-focused nature), and there was speculation about the project's current stewardship after Jason Evans' departure, with confirmation that it remains actively maintained but lacking clear public documentation of current leadership or Meta's continued involvement.2a:Tad1,Gowers declines to sign a 25-Fields-medallist open letter warning that AI is destroying mathematics by producing results too fast without proper digestion or human insight. His core disagreement: the letter privileges "conceptual understanding" over "problem-solving," but mathematicians operate across a spectrum of motivations. Some are problem-driven (understanding aids problem-solving), others are understanding-driven (problem-solving aids understanding). Declaring one approach superior would alienate many mathematicians, including himself.

On the practical concern of result volume, Gowers argues it's not catastrophic. Mathematics is highly specialized; if 1000 major results appear yearly, each subfield absorbs only ~30. He notes humans already produce massive output without crisis. AI proofs also aren't opaque black boxes—they build on human work with readable derivations. And he defends a seemingly paradoxical point: even if there's too much AI content to digest, that may be fine; mathematicians can choose what interests them, akin to curating from infinite streaming content rather than watching everything that deserves attention.

His real worry isn't capability or volume but social collapse: will young people still want PhDs in mathematics if the dream of solving famous unsolved problems evaporates? His own motivation to become a mathematician partly hinged on that dream. Funding bodies might defund mathematics if it appears no longer "productive." The letter's demand for restraint also seems moot—LLMs will release major-problem-solving models regardless of protest, so criticizing companies may only accelerate the timeline.

Gowers discloses OpenAI contacts and free API access but says he's never been paid, hopes for fair hearing. He runs an automatic theorem-proving group whose original motivation—understanding human proof methods—is now obsolete, but he sees intellectual value in the exercise anyway.

Top comments split several ways: agreement that the social/motivational risks are the real issue, not capability (layer8, Chance-Device); concern that AI companies strip-mine problems without responsibility (fruitl00p); questions about whether AI still leaves meaningful work if it solves everything (cmplxconjugate, piker, elisbce); historical analogy to slide rules vs. calculators—societies adapted, but pedagogy evolved (samatman); and darker takes that AI companies (like Uber/tech VCs) may destroy the field then monopolize it (bubblegumcrisis). A few argue humans will simply move to harder problems (singularity2001, gnramires), or that mathematics as hobby/intellectual pursuit survives even if professional mathematics shrinks. One commenter notes Gowers' blog is still ad-laden despite his status (swyx).2b:T905,The article argues LLMs excel at mechanical copyediting tasks—flagging passive voice, word repetition, filler words, structural problems—but will make writing worse if you let them influence your voice or word choice. The core strategy: write a full draft yourself, then use LLMs in supervised passes to identify specific mechanical flaws, rewrite those sections yourself, and have a separate model (without context) judge original versus revision. Author devised a workshopping tool combining prose editor with sidebar comments and multi-pass revision tracking to manage this workflow systematically.

Two enforcement rules prevent "LLM creep" into uncanny-valley output: (1) reject every suggested word or phrase outright—frontier models are trained on plausible, magazine-headline-quality prose that, when accumulated, reads as processed rather than authentic; (2) forbid the model from offering encouragement or praise, since models reflexively validate drafts and will trick you into doubling down on first-draft impulses instead of the deep rethinking that shapes your voice. Author cites "Style: Lessons in Clarity and Grace" as the human reference to build a checklist of repeatable editing passes.

HN comments cluster around three tensions: First, readers report they can sense AI usage even when following the rules, creating reading friction and fatigue. Second, multiple commenters noted ironic AI-tells in the article itself—particularly "load-bearing," which became a Reddit meme for AI-detectable phrasing, and the author explicitly breaks Rule One here. Third, disagreement over whether the approach justifies the cognitive overhead: some argue that writing prose yourself (including commit messages and PRs) is the point, not a friction to minimize, and that outsourcing thinking degrades understanding. Others find value in the copyediting-only approach, particularly for technical writing where factual accuracy checking or theme detection works well. One commenter built a competing tool using writing styles from your own examples rather than rulebooks. Praise centers on the prose quality itself ("like reading Paul Graham") and the actionable specificity of the editing workflow. Skeptics question whether even perfectly-executed LLM-as-editor produces detectably human output.2c:T99e,Australia's trade minister Don Farrell told the Sydney Morning Herald that Australia is "on the same page" with Canada's efforts to deepen EU relations, expressing interest in what Canadian PM Mark Carney pursues. Canada is exploring "associate member" status or a "unique alliance" with the EU rather than full membership, focusing on sectors like AI, energy, defence, and critical minerals with potential free movement of goods, services, and workers in those areas.

Farrell stated Australia is open to various arrangements with the EU (excluding fibre-optic cables due to distances) and framed the issue as part of a global divide between protectionists and free traders. Australia signed a free trade agreement with the EU in March 2024 after eight years of negotiation. The article notes Australia has faced US tariffs on exports despite its long-standing security pact and free trade deal with Washington, motivating diversification efforts.

The comment section reveals several layers of skepticism and context. Australian commenters note a generational shift: while the US topped surveys as Australia's closest ally for over a decade, New Zealand recently took that spot, reflecting broader cultural realignment. However, several comments emphasize Australia's pragmatic, opportunistic approach—the country trades with anyone profitable and is unlikely to make bold moves that alienate the US. One economist notes Australia's economic strength stems from cheap, high-quality primary production (mining, agricultural goods) where it dominates on price and quality, not advanced manufacturing or technology. Comments suggest Australia will likely "walk the middle road" rather than genuinely pivot.

Skeptics question whether Australia has the political constitution for such moves, citing the controversial $800 million submarine deal with the US as evidence of one-sided alignment. One commenter notes the Australian government often copies Canadian policy without innovation. Some view this as performative—sending a message to US Congress about Trump's policies—rather than serious structural realignment. There's recognition that Trump hasn't directly threatened Australia like he has Canada, making the motivation less urgent. Several comments acknowledge this reflects temporary Trump-era friction rather than lasting geopolitical realignment, predicting Canada and Australia will default to traditional US alignment once Trump leaves office.2d:T1394,David Owen's essay traces his cross-country road trip reflections on American culture, landing on self-storage as a pillar alongside churches. The U.S. dominates global self-storage (90% of capacity), with 40+ billion in annual revenues and more facilities than Starbucks, McDonald's, and Walmart combined. Owen documents the origin in the 1970s, evolution into an institutional asset class, geographic distribution (Texas leads, Hawaii has fewest), and the industry's appeal in Reno (Burning Man gear), Florida's Villages (retirees downsizing), and Las Vegas trade shows.

The mechanisms are revealing. Storage industry professionals cite the "four Ds"—death, displacement, divorce, downsizing—as primary drivers. Owen shares a case study of a technologist who rented a 20x40 Queens unit and forgot about synthesizers, pianos, and organs stored inside for years. His own family experience with a Pods unit meant to send furniture to their daughter illustrated how few possessions actually transfer generationally; he calls this the "fifth D: delusion" that children want antique "brown" furniture.

The financial architecture depends on subscription friction. Owen explains that Stanford/Texas A&M research shows "cancellation frictions roughly double seller revenues." Automatic credit-card billing makes it easy to pay without consciously thinking about it, and many customers simply never cancel. He shares a story of a friend whose mother died in 2006 and stored furniture "temporarily"—50 years and $50K+ later, it's still there. The industry benefits from default inertia: people postpone the emotional and physical labor of emptying a unit indefinitely.

The business model itself is attractive: low capital costs, minimal staff (or none), low maintenance, low liability, and hands-off operations. Owen visits a facility in Florida where climate control, motion-activated lights, and drive-in access create a sterile, nearly empty-feeling building—people visit units about as often as nursing homes. He notes the "Storage Wars" effect: the 2010 A&E show dramatized the possibility of treasures in abandoned units, causing auctions to swell from 3-5 to 150 bidders, though most discover broken toys and worthless junk.

Owen meets facility operators and young entrepreneurs. Ray Underwood runs a small 145-unit operation; Kerry Copeland manages 20 Extra Space locations in Florida serving Villages retirees. Armaan Premjee, born 1997, runs Texas and Louisiana facilities from Barcelona using AI to set rates, handle tenant communications, and manage operations. Premjee sees massive European expansion potential—smaller homes, same consumerism plus Amazon. Troy Bix, the founder of Inside Self-Storage trade publication, sold his company in 2017, convinced younger generations don't care about stuff, and now runs Toy Storage Nation for RV/boat facilities that exploded during COVID.

The technology angle: AI now handles rate optimization (competing with neighbors), permit applications, phone calls, and tenant communications. Phone-only rentals are giving way to entirely digital experiences. Facility operators discuss growth prospects with enthusiasm despite market saturation in some regions; the consensus is that technology and AI are reshaping the sector.

Owen includes a darkly comic exorcism anecdote: a man bought a haunted antique wardrobe and an Episcopal priest conducted a pseudo-exorcism at both the house and storage unit (the real problem was a brain tumor).

HN comments surface deeper economic observations. epochbtc reframes the question: why is *supply* abundant? The answer is investor economics—self-storage offers ideal cash-on-cash returns for mid-sized capital: cheap land, cheap construction, zero employees, low liability, low overhead, and recurring revenue. Supply naturally breeds demand: it's easier to rent $80/month storage than to emotionally process decluttering.

dcdc123 pushes back: legitimate uses exist (camping gear, electronics boxes, tools for hobbies) and frequent access. rootbear shares personal experience clearing a unit inherited from a sister, noting rising monthly fees and the trap of technology hoarding. bluGill points out many users are businesses or seasonal rotators (contractors, decorations, fishing trips), not hoarders. alexpotato notes small businesses use units as mini-warehouses—tax-deductible alternatives to renting commercial space.

msarrel shifts focus: housing market compression forces external storage. Smaller homes mean no room for seasonal items. pglevy frames units as "above-ground landfills" and adopted a hard rule: nothing external. mike_bob describes a father with shipping containers ($500/mo, 18 years) storing maybe $5K of goods—"consumerism is a disease."

Broader critiques: arwhatever flags liability evasion (some states relieve facilities of theft responsibility) and opaque rate increases. meetingthrower proposes exponential pricing to force decisions. manoDev links it to anxiety disorders…2e:T946,Ferstar published a forensics breakdown showing ZCode packages and uploads entire workspaces to Aliyun OSS whenever logged in. The mechanism: client requests RSA public keys from Z.ai, encrypts the .git directory (299MB of a 345MB payload including 42,411 files, full reflogs, LFS assets) with AES-256-CTR, wraps the symmetric key with the server's public key, and POSTs directly to Aliyun with callbacks to Z.ai for registration. The private key lives only on Z.ai's servers—users cannot decrypt their own uploaded code. Session logs showed 62 capture events from a single active session.

The UI settings "Optimize Experience" and "Repo Snapshot Indexing" do not stop the upload; the capture sidecar runs unconditionally at startup whenever a valid JWT exists. The checkpoint/rewind feature users see is wired into this pipeline. Z.ai's privacy policy only mentions "text, files, and code submitted during conversations," not workspace snapshots or git history. Z.ai launched in July 2026 as an open-weight alternative to Claude Code weeks after Claude's hidden-telemetry scandal, positioning itself as trustworthy because models are open-weight—but the harness is closed.

HN commenters split into camps. Most argue the finding confirms the broader principle: closed-source harnesses are inherently untrustworthy regardless of origin (US or Chinese), and open-weight models wrapped in cloud-phoning proprietary software are not local. Several point to similar incidents (Grok CLI, Windows Defender/Codex) and recommend OpenCode, Pi.dev, or swival.dev as open-source harnesses that support GLM. One commenter (weiran) claims they've used ZCode since launch with no evidence of the capture in their data, suggesting either recent deployment or selective observation. Others note this validates long-standing suspicions about token economics—cheap or unlimited usage has to come from somewhere, and exfiltrating proprietary code for training is plausible. One comment invoked Bayesian priors about Z and China-Russia cooperation, dismissed as likely coincidence but illustrative of trust erosion. A few note agents already upload code fragments during tool calls with consent, so the issue is the hidden scope and encryption preventing user decryption. The filesystem-level fix (making ~/.zcode/v2/checkpoints immutable) disables checkpoint rollback but stops uploads.2f:T701,Ternary LLMs encode weights as one of three values (-1, 0, +1), theoretically requiring log₂(3) ≈ 1.585 bits per weight. Current practice packs five ternary weights per byte, yielding 1.625 bits/weight and treating all symbols as equiprobable. This paper measures actual weight distributions across 29 ternary models and discovers zeros comprise up to 51.5% of weights, motivating a distribution-aware encoding.

BITCOS compresses weights using a presence bitmap (indicating non-zero positions) plus a compacted sign vector for non-zeros, achieving 2-z bits per weight where z is zero density. On 26 of 29 tested models, BITCOS beats five-trit packing, reaching 1.485 bits on the sparsest model. The authors provide optimized unpacking kernels for AVX-512, AVX2, and Intel Xe2 GPUs, demonstrating up to 1.28× faster matrix-vector multiplication and 1.18-1.27× end-to-end inference throughput improvements across five platforms (client/server CPUs, integrated/discrete GPUs).

HN commenters found the empirical observation intuitive—several assumed ternary encodings already exploited zero density. Sentiment was largely positive, with enthusiasm for ASIC integration and edge deployment applications. Critics questioned whether ternary quantization outperforms vector quantization or arithmetic coding. Some noted the scheme's unusual virtue: it works directly in-memory without unpacking to expanded form first, making it usable as both storage and compute format. One commenter appreciated the authors spelling out log₂(3) explicitly. Practical edge ML researchers flagged the relevance for fitting models in 16GB VRAM constraints. No major technical objections surfaced, though one suggestion proposed 8-bit LUT encoding of 6-component vectors as a simpler decompression approach.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-18 16:22 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-18 16:22 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":3}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://rohanbansal.com/qorl","id":49731285,"rank":1,"title":"Training a 4B model to produce 81% faster query plans than Postgres","url":"https://rohanbansal.com/qorl","domain":"rohanbansal.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49731285","by":"polyphilz","score":684,"commentCount":143,"time":1789584600000,"short":"Training a 4B Qwen model via supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning to produce Postgres query plans 44.7% faster on join-heavy IMDb queries. Comments highlight substantial caveats: small in-memory 8GB dataset with no real statistics/indexes, unrealistic OLTP patterns, high training costs (~$1200), and missing planning overhead in benchmarks. Fundamental concern that LLMs can hallucinate bad plans non-deterministically, and real databases need fast online planning that adapts to live…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:32.182Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/asciimoo/hister","id":49743097,"rank":2,"title":"Hister: A private search engine for the pages you visit and the files you keep","url":"https://github.com/asciimoo/hister","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49743097","by":"bookofjoe","score":679,"commentCount":179,"time":1789662337000,"short":"Hister is a privacy-focused full-text search engine for web pages you visit and local files, indexable via browser extension, command line, or AI assistant MCP integration. It indexes complete page contents offline, supports semantic search, runs entirely locally, and notably solves Chrome's 2008 feature that was removed in 2013. Comments reveal strong demand—multiple users built similar tools independently, and early adopters praise its utility for recovering forgotten information, though the…","long":"$13","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive search engine with working web UI and browser extension—a complete…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:53.785Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/17/microsoft-exec-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-new-unredacted-filings-reveal","id":49752056,"rank":3,"title":"Microsoft exec called AI scraping 'the largest theft of labor in human history'","url":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/09/17/microsoft-exec-called-ai-scraping-the-largest-theft-of-labor-in-human-history-new-unredacted-filings-reveal/","domain":"techcrunch.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752056","by":"pluc","score":668,"commentCount":575,"time":1789724707000,"short":"New unredacted court filings from NYT's lawsuit against OpenAI and Microsoft reveal damning internal admissions: a Microsoft exec called AI scraping \"the largest theft of labor in human history,\" the companies deliberately bypassed paywalls and stripped copyright notices, and Microsoft's own data showed Copilot caused 93% click-through drops. Internal documents acknowledge models pose \"existential threat\" to publishers and are \"largely substitutive.\" HN split between those viewing this as…","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:23.926Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"key":"https://will-keleher.com/posts/small-programming-tricks-matter","id":49729000,"rank":4,"title":"Small programming tricks","url":"https://will-keleher.com/posts/small-programming-tricks-matter/","domain":"will-keleher.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49729000","by":"signa11","score":661,"commentCount":289,"time":1789574207000,"short":"Post advocates that small, high-leverage knowledge nuggets—like CLI tricks (fzf, git pickaxe, ripgrep, git log -S), SQL features (SELECT without FROM, EXPLAIN ANALYZE), and shell tricks—compound into significant productivity gains. Comments debate whether these are genuinely \"programming\" tricks (many are CLI/DevOps focused), discuss adoption barriers (people stay with inefficient methods until actively reminded), and share personal variations like keeping ~/scratch.txt, using zoxide, or…","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:32.463Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://bend-lang.com","id":49746163,"rank":5,"title":"Bend – A language that blocks AI mistakes via proof, on CPU and GPU","url":"https://bend-lang.com/","domain":"bend-lang.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49746163","by":"nicolas-siplis","score":566,"commentCount":287,"time":1789677373000,"short":"Bend is a compiled language combining C-speed native code, GPU parallelism via simple fork-join, and Lean-style proof checking to formally verify that AI-written code satisfies invariants (LAWS.bend). The core value proposition: declare immutable laws about what code must never do, and the compiler blocks any implementation that can't be formally proven to preserve them—making merging buggy AI code mathematically impossible. HN responses are sharply divided: some see promise in proof-assisted…","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:09.922Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://openai.com/index/astra-for-law","id":49745940,"rank":6,"title":"Astra for Law","url":"https://openai.com/index/astra-for-law/","domain":"openai.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49745940","by":"vertigoruntime","score":556,"commentCount":654,"time":1789676268000,"short":"OpenAI introduced Astra for Law, combining GPT-6 Astra with a legal search index covering 230M+ URLs of U.S. case law and a corpus reaching 99.9% of published precedent. The system achieved 54% accuracy on Legal Research Bench (vs. 38.7% for GPT-6 alone), finding 24% more case references and 54% more relevant passages. Available via Trusted Access with zero data retention; 26 ecosystem plugins integrate with Relativity, Clio, iManage. HN comments highlight that AI excels at document processing…","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:10.600Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/rl","id":49732270,"rank":7,"title":"Xiaomi Mimo 2.6 live post-training dashboard","url":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/rl/","domain":"mimo.xiaomi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732270","by":"krackers","score":547,"commentCount":154,"time":1789589358000,"short":"Xiaomi's Mimo 2.6 model is currently training live with a public dashboard showing real-time metrics: 2/3 of training data is source code, cumulative cost is $1.2M, and it's on track to spend ~$432K daily. Comments praise the transparency—rare for frontier models—and note Mimo 2.5-Pro scores 19% on DeepSWE (vs competitors at 69-74%), while real users report it delivers GPT-4-class quality at 10x better ROI than Anthropic models.","long":"$18","gem":true,"gemReason":"Live training dashboard with real-time metrics, cost tracking, and benchmark scores…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:21.479Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://prismml.com/news/bonsai-2-27b","id":49746618,"rank":8,"title":"Bonsai 2 27B: Near-Lossless Compression in a 9x Smaller Footprint","url":"https://prismml.com/news/bonsai-2-27b","domain":"prismml.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49746618","by":"JonSchneider","score":528,"commentCount":172,"time":1789679611000,"short":"PrismML released Ternary Bonsai 2 27B, a ternary-quantized 27B model compressed to 5.9GB using 1.76 bits-per-weight, retaining 98.2% of full-precision Qwen3.8 27B's aggregate benchmark performance while delivering 143 tokens/sec on RTX 5090 and 46.8 on M5 Max. HN consensus: genuinely impressive compression and benchmarks, but real-world performance claims need caution—demos show it struggles with longer tasks and agentic reasoning compared to base Qwen, and comparisons to standard quantization…","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:31.744Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://hawksley.dev/blog/i-dont-like-passkeys","id":49753211,"rank":9,"title":"I don't like passkeys","url":"https://hawksley.dev/blog/i-dont-like-passkeys","domain":"hawksley.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49753211","by":"ethanhawksley","score":453,"commentCount":420,"time":1789733210000,"short":"Ethan Hawksley argues passkeys aren't ready for individual users despite being technically sound. They eliminate phishing but create worse real-world risks: permanent account lockout if you lose device access, synced keys tied to Apple/Google accounts vulnerable to bans, hardware key management complexity, and poor third-party password manager integration. HN commenters broadly agree about UX fragmentation and aggressive platform pushing, though some prefer passkeys over flakey password…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:26.796Z","age":"4 hours ago"},{"key":"https://hacktron.ai/blog/hacking-openai","id":49749656,"rank":10,"title":"A heap overflow and SSO misconfiguration to compromise OpenAI internal repos","url":"https://www.hacktron.ai/blog/hacking-openai","domain":"hacktron.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49749656","by":"Handy-Man","score":411,"commentCount":175,"time":1789699644000,"short":"Hacktron researchers chained a libheif heap overflow in Discourse's image processing with an OpenAI SSO misconfiguration to compromise employee ChatGPT accounts and access internal repos within 72 hours. They demonstrated RCE by crafting a PR in OpenAI's monorepo, disclosing responsibly to earn a $6,500 bounty. Comments highlight the scary ease with which Claude/GPT-5 automated exploit development, the insufficient bounty, risks of unsandboxed ImageMagick, and concerns about AI-driven scalable…","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:37.549Z","age":"14 hours ago"},{"key":"https://z.ai/blog/glm-built-its-inference-infrastructure","id":49737922,"rank":11,"title":"How GLM built its own inference infrastructure","url":"https://z.ai/blog/glm-built-its-inference-infrastructure","domain":"z.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737922","by":"whiteros_e","score":399,"commentCount":277,"time":1789633629000,"short":"GLM/Z.AI claims to have built production inference infrastructure on 100k+ Chinese AI accelerators with aggressive memory optimizations. Page unavailable, but comments reveal skepticism: users report slow performance and recent price hikes, some note the infrastructure doesn't match the marketing claims, though a few acknowledge genuine optimization work. Debate emerges around US chip restrictions driving Chinese innovation and whether these announcements are partly positioning for policy…","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:52.511Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://events.ccc.de/en/2026/09/12/40c3-model-citizens","id":49737787,"rank":12,"title":"CCC invites all model citizens to 40C3","url":"https://events.ccc.de/en/2026/09/12/40c3-model-citizens/","domain":"events.ccc.de","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737787","by":"antonly","score":365,"commentCount":216,"time":1789632234000,"short":"The Chaos Computer Club announces 40C3 (December 27–30, 2026) in Hamburg's new exhibition halls with the theme \"Model Citizens,\" inviting talks, music, art, and performances. Comments highlight CCC as uniquely community-driven vs. DefCon's corporate culture, but note it attracts some pretentious gatekeepers, has historically difficult ticket access, requires real-name online registration despite privacy values, and has faced past security failures.","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:51.952Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://servo.org/blog/2026/09/15/one-year-of-sponsorship","id":49737849,"rank":13,"title":"One year of sponsored Servo development","url":"https://servo.org/blog/2026/09/15/one-year-of-sponsorship/","domain":"servo.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737849","by":"AshleysBrain","score":353,"commentCount":144,"time":1789632834000,"short":"Servo's Josh Bowman-Matthews completed a year of donation-funded work on contributor experience, reviewing 1150 PRs, nominating 8 new maintainers, and creating documentation. HN comments questioned Servo's practical use case, noted SpiderMonkey remains non-Rust, and praised alternatives to Ladybird while some suggested corporate partnerships could accelerate progress.","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:44.733Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://filipovski.net/2026/09/16/backups-arent-simple.html","id":49732513,"rank":14,"title":"Backups Aren't Simple","url":"https://filipovski.net/2026/09/16/backups-arent-simple.html","domain":"filipovski.net","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732513","by":"afilipovski","score":352,"commentCount":220,"time":1789590436000,"short":"Backups seem straightforward—keep copies of your data elsewhere—but reality forces increasingly complex decisions: RPO targets, retention schedules, deduplication, encryption, 3-2-1 redundancy across media types, database consistency, and offsite storage. The author traces escalating requirements using incremental snapshot tools like rsnapshot, then recommends delegating to proven solutions like Borg or Restic. HN commenters reinforced the message with personal data loss stories and confirmed…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:54.041Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://openjev.com","id":49752041,"rank":15,"title":"OpenJev","url":"https://openjev.com/","domain":"openjev.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752041","by":"ilreb","score":348,"commentCount":193,"time":1789724542000,"short":"OpenJev is a browser-based demo reproducing Jev's semantic-if interface using open models (Qwen, MiniCPM) to measure decision probabilities via two methods: direct logit reading vs. JSON generation. Comments reveal skepticism about whether this genuinely replicates Jev's core innovation (speed guarantees, constrained generation), disagreement on practical value vs. structured outputs, and notes that real Jev prohibits benchmarking while this hack is replicable.","long":"$20","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive browser tool for live local inference comparison: load small LLMs, supply…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:24.572Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"key":"https://netmeister.org/blog/everybodys-lost-their-minds.html","id":49745570,"rank":16,"title":"Everybody's Lost Their Minds","url":"https://www.netmeister.org/blog/everybodys-lost-their-minds.html","domain":"netmeister.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49745570","by":"ibobev","score":347,"commentCount":298,"time":1789674214000,"short":"Jschauma vents about AI's pervasive dysfunction: hype-driven projects discovering vulnerabilities nobody patches, engineers de-skilling through dependency, environmental devastation, and companies posturing about existential risk while maximizing profits. HN splits into believers seeing real productivity gains and exhausted skeptics watching collective insanity.","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:01.719Z","age":"21 hours ago"},{"key":"https://theguardian.com/world/2026/sep/17/iran-school-bombing-un-mission-us-military-behind-attack","id":49739018,"rank":17,"title":"Iran school bombing: grounds to believe US was behind atrocity, UN finds","url":"https://www.theguardian.com/world/2026/sep/17/iran-school-bombing-un-mission-us-military-behind-attack","domain":"theguardian.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49739018","by":"hebelehubele","score":342,"commentCount":293,"time":1789642835000,"short":"UN fact-finding mission determined the US committed war crimes in February 2026 strikes on an Iranian school and sports facility that killed 156 civilians including 120 children using Tomahawk missiles. Pentagon used outdated targeting data and failed to verify intelligence about military presence before launching indiscriminate attacks. HN debate centers on whether negligence equals intentional war crime, with some defending as wartime fog and others pointing to double-tap pattern suggesting…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:55:51.804Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"hn:49738879","id":49738879,"rank":18,"title":"Neovim have a ~$800k Bitcoin donation sitting untouched since 2023","url":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738879","domain":null,"isTextPost":true,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738879","by":"jakemanger","score":308,"commentCount":260,"time":1789641889000,"short":"Neovim has an inactive Bitcoin wallet with approximately 10 BTC (~$800k at current prices) donated in 2023, with no outgoing transactions since 2019. Community questions whether project maintainers still have access to the private keys and suggest the wallet may be abandoned; comments note the current donation method is OpenCollective, and debate whether large unrealized gains could trigger tax obligations.","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:45.465Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://skywriter.blue/@segyges.bsky.social/3mvom4b4dn22q","id":49737985,"rank":19,"title":"AI safety is mostly a sex cult","url":"https://skywriter.blue/@segyges.bsky.social/3mvom4b4dn22q","domain":"skywriter.blue","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737985","by":"Tomte","score":308,"commentCount":247,"time":1789634197000,"short":"Bluesky post alleges AI safety community centered on Yudkowsky is a \"sex cult\" driven by personal dysfunction rather than genuine concern. Comments split between those finding the ad hominem attack unproductive versus those sharing concerns about community culture; many argue dismissing safety arguments based on participants' private lives is fallacious, though some observe real weirdness in rationalist communities and questionable leadership decisions.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:02.121Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.8-omni-flash","id":49747925,"rank":20,"title":"Qwen 3.8 Omni Flash","url":"https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.8-omni-flash","domain":"qwen.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49747925","by":"jjcm","score":300,"commentCount":107,"time":1789686348000,"short":"Alibaba's Qwen 3.8 Omni Flash released with audio-visual performance claimed to match or exceed Google's Gemini 3.8 Flash at dramatically lower cost (0.15-0.47 vs 1.5-9.0 per million tokens). Comments praise Qwen's reliability but highlight concerns: pricing remains limited to Alibaba platform, no open weights, blog presentation felt heavy and unimpressive, and model naming convention is confusing.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:20.292Z","age":"17 hours ago"},{"key":"https://ryan.science/blog/keys-not-included","id":49735930,"rank":21,"title":"Keys Not Included: recovering the signing keys for US driver's license barcodes","url":"https://ryan.science/blog/keys-not-included","domain":"ryan.science","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49735930","by":"Ryan5453","score":281,"commentCount":149,"time":1789614203000,"short":"Author reverse-engineered US driver's license barcode signing by analyzing ECDSA signatures across multiple states and recovered the public keys. Comments highlight that recovering public keys isn't inherently problematic (they're meant to be public), dispute exact details of the attack, and debate implications for mDL adoption, ID verification workflows, and cryptographic security practices.","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:56.526Z","age":"37 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.liampwll.com/posts/bend_vibe_coding","id":49753179,"rank":22,"title":"Bend 2 and the Vibe-Coding Trap","url":"https://blog.liampwll.com/posts/bend_vibe_coding/","domain":"blog.liampwll.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49753179","by":"LiamPowell","score":277,"commentCount":204,"time":1789733035000,"short":"Liam Powell criticizes Bend 2's design for requiring verbose specification and proof code (442 lines to verify a simple game demo) and accuses the author of not knowing formal verification exists, showing a SPARK solution with automatic proof checking instead. The accusation sparked backlash: Bend's author Victor Taelin has a decade-long history in formal verification, published work on dependent types, and deliberately chose verbosity for speed. Comments note Powell vibe-coded his SPARK…","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:31.271Z","age":"4 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bbc.com/news/articles/cwly7vkke4jxo","id":49740507,"rank":23,"title":"Canada welcomes EU proposal to become 'associate member'","url":"https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cwly7vkke4jxo","domain":"bbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49740507","by":"witweb","score":275,"commentCount":343,"time":1789651837000,"short":"Canadian PM Carney welcomed EU's proposal for Canada to become its first \"associate member\", offering closer cooperation on defence, critical minerals, and energy. The undefined new status sparked Trump's threat of \"very serious tariffs\" on Europe if he deems it hostile, amid ongoing US-Canada trade tensions. Comments debate feasibility, the theatrical nature of announcements, and whether this represents genuine alliance-building or geopolitical theater.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:25:03.225Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/jemalloc/jemalloc/releases/tag/5.4.0","id":49750152,"rank":24,"title":"Jemalloc 5.4.0","url":"https://github.com/jemalloc/jemalloc/releases/tag/5.4.0","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49750152","by":"gkfasdfasdf","score":273,"commentCount":69,"time":1789705224000,"short":"Jemalloc 5.4.0 released with 160+ commits focusing on technical debt: new pinned-memory tracking for HugeTLB, compile-time C++ infallible-new option, tcache tuning improvements, and major refactoring to separate concerns (OS abstraction layer, modularized frontend, simplified control dispatch). Numerous bug fixes for errno preservation, TSD lifecycle, and platform-specific issues. Notably the project appears actively maintained again after a gap since 2022, with comments praising its…","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:38.667Z","age":"12 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gowers.wordpress.com/2026/09/17/why-i-didnt-sign-the-fields-medallists-letter","id":49738091,"rank":25,"title":"Why I didn’t sign the Fields medallists’ letter","url":"https://gowers.wordpress.com/2026/09/17/why-i-didnt-sign-the-fields-medallists-letter/","domain":"gowers.wordpress.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738091","by":"simianwords","score":272,"commentCount":388,"time":1789635111000,"short":"Gowers explains why he didn't sign a Fields medallists' letter warning against AI in mathematics, disagreeing with its framing that conceptual understanding should be the priority over problem-solving. He argues there's a spectrum of mathematical temperaments and worries more about social structures collapsing than AI flooding the field. Comments debate whether AI automating discovery harms human motivation and the profession's transmission to new generations.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T08:29:33.089Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://sockpuppet.org/blog/2026/09/17/how-to-write-with-an-llm","id":49747070,"rank":26,"title":"How to Write with an LLM","url":"https://sockpuppet.org/blog/2026/09/17/how-to-write-with-an-llm/","domain":"sockpuppet.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49747070","by":"joeriddles","score":264,"commentCount":177,"time":1789681718000,"short":"Author proposes using LLMs as copyeditors, not ghostwriters: write yourself, then feed work to models for mechanical problem-spotting (repetition, weak verbs, clutter). Two strict rules prevent LLM creep: never use a single suggested phrase, and ignore model encouragement since it flatters bad first drafts. Comments validate the approach but note the irony of author using \"load-bearing\" (an LLM tell), debate whether cognitive cost of non-LLM writing is worth it, and discuss practical…","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:35.483Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://independent.co.uk/news/world/australasia/canda-eu-membership-australia-us-trade-b3050227.html","id":49734171,"rank":27,"title":"Australia says it could follow Canada in forging deeper ties with EU","url":"https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/australasia/canda-eu-membership-australia-us-trade-b3050227.html","domain":"independent.co.uk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49734171","by":"doener","score":246,"commentCount":212,"time":1789599408000,"short":"Australia's trade minister says the country could follow Canada in seeking closer EU ties amid US trade friction. The article notes Australia already has a free trade agreement with the EU (signed March 2024) and hasn't specified what deeper ties might entail. Comments emphasize Australia pragmatically pursues trade everywhere; many doubt concrete action given historical US alignment and question whether Australia has the political will for bold moves independent of Washington.","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:11.382Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://newyorker.com/magazine/2026/09/21/the-american-religion-of-self-storage-facilities","id":49740260,"rank":28,"title":"The American Religion of Self-Storage Facilities","url":"https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2026/09/21/the-american-religion-of-self-storage-facilities","domain":"newyorker.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49740260","by":"pseudolus","score":245,"commentCount":422,"time":1789650748000,"short":"David Owen's New Yorker essay describes self-storage as a distinctly American phenomenon—90% of global capacity exists in the U.S.—that reveals a culture of overconsumption and emotional attachment to possessions. He explores the industry's $40B annual revenue, driven by life crises (the \"four Ds\": death, displacement, divorce, downsizing) and subscription friction that keeps people paying for units they rarely visit. HN comments emphasize that the real story is supply-side economics: storage…","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:51.157Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://tokenstead.ai/guides/zcode-silent-git-history-upload","id":49752422,"rank":29,"title":"ZCode, the GLM coding agent, silently uploads your Git history","url":"https://tokenstead.ai/guides/zcode-silent-git-history-upload","domain":"tokenstead.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49752422","by":"cdnsteve","score":243,"commentCount":56,"time":1789727728000,"short":"Researcher ferstar reverse-engineered ZCode, Z.ai's closed-source GLM coding desktop app, and found it silently uploads users' entire git repositories—including full history, deleted code, API keys, and unpushed branches—encrypted with keys only Z.ai controls. The 313MB archive is packaged 62 times per session and UI toggles don't stop it. HN consensus: closed-source harnesses are untrustworthy; use open-source alternatives like OpenCode or Pi.dev regardless of model weight availability.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T16:22:42.875Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"key":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.16338","id":49732931,"rank":30,"title":"Breaking the 1.58-bit Barrier for Ternary LLMs","url":"https://arxiv.org/abs/2609.16338","domain":"arxiv.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732931","by":"matt_d","score":241,"commentCount":40,"time":1789592364000,"short":"Researchers exploit skewed weight distributions in ternary LLMs (weights in {-1,0,+1}) to improve storage beyond the theoretical 1.585-bit minimum. Their BITCOS layout uses a presence bitmap plus sign vector, achieving 1.485 bits/weight by recognizing zeros comprise 51.5% of weights. They demonstrate 1.18-1.28× throughput gains on CPUs and GPUs, making ternary models more practical for edge deployment.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-18T00:56:17.630Z","age":"43 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-18T08-29Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-18 08:29 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-19T00-54Z/","children":["2026-09-19 00:54 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-18 16:22 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
