1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"6hqSBzNyfqgfhX_Uv52Jc","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-09-17T16-25Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-09-17T16-25Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-09-17T16-25Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:T8c6,TypeSafe AI announced Jev, positioning it as a new "System One Model" class distinct from LLMs. Rather than autoregressively generating tokens, Jev takes unstructured input plus a structured schema and outputs typed probabilistic decisions in parallel. Claims: 40-200x faster (70-500ms end-to-end vs seconds for frontier LLMs), $0.042/MTok input with free output tokens, mathematically impossible type errors, and calibrated confidence estimates. Uses a training method called Reinforcement Learning for Calibrated Decisions (RLCD).

The announcement provides workflow evaluations showing Jev dominating on classification, routing, scoring, and extraction tasks. Fun demos include a Doom bot making real-time decisions and a Wikipedia racer navigating high-cardinality choices efficiently. They emphasize that "giving up" string generation enables speed and efficiency superpowers.

Comment consensus acknowledges the core insight is sound—LLMs forced into narrow structured tasks via wrapper logic are slow and expensive—but questions whether this is architecturally novel or clever engineering. Several experienced engineers note this matches their actual production pattern: narrow the LLM output to minimal structured decisions. No fundamental disagreement on usefulness for classification/routing, but skepticism on novelty.

Key pushback: (1) Speed comparisons are somewhat unfair; existing LLMs can generate structured output via harness and existing models offer comparable inference with structured constraints. (2) "Can't hallucinate" is misleading—it can't emit invalid types but can emit wrong valid values. (3) Unclear what percentage of architectural novelty versus training/optimization. (4) Context window capped at 32k limits some use cases.

Enthusiasts note it could transform contract-based programming patterns and agent workflows by enabling fast semantic branching. The Doom demo particularly impressed even skeptics, though some ask if it was fine-tuned. Broader concern: marketing positions this as "vs LLMs" when complementary usage (Claude to design config, Jev to execute) seems more realistic. Several commenters wanted this integrated into OpenRouter or AWS Bedrock rather than requiring new vendor evaluation.13:T91a,NVIDIA announced native GPU programming support in Rust with two complementary approaches. The SIMT track (cuda-oxide) provides a custom rustc codegen backend routing kernels through MIR, Pliron IR, and LLVM to PTX. The Tile track (cutile-rs) operates at a higher abstraction level, with the compiler deciding thread mapping and memory layout through JIT compilation via CUDA Tile IR. Both enforce compile-time memory safety: cuda-oxide uses DisjointSlice and launch contracts to prevent aliasing; cutile-rs uses tensor partitioning and Rust ownership semantics to guarantee exclusive access. The SIMT track requires a pinned nightly toolchain, Linux, CUDA 12.x+, and system LLVM, while Tile runs on stable Rust 1.89+ with only CUDA 13.3. cutile-rs is on crates.io and proven in production (HuggingFace Grout, mistral.rs); cuda-oxide remains early alpha. NVIDIA plans inter-language interoperability between CUDA Rust, C++, and Python. The announcement includes runnable examples: vector addition in both styles, demonstrating identical functionality but different programming models.

Comments reveal strong skepticism alongside interest. A major criticism concerns the blog's tone: multiple commenters noted it reads like Claude-generated content rather than NVIDIA's typical technical style, raising broader concerns about AI-written documentation credibility. Some dismissed this as marketing fluff ("AI slop"). Technical concerns centered on: the nightly toolchain requirement for SIMT limiting adoption; vendor lock-in risks and ifdef complexity when mixing CUDA with other code; incomplete tooling for diagnosing multi-layer failures (Rust/cuda-oxide/CUDA/Tile stack); and Linux-only support. One commenter questioned why the two tracks were already inconsistent in the starter examples (a,b,c vs z,x,y). Defenders noted the value of compile-time race prevention and welcomed the direction as raising GPU programming reliability. Several mentioned existing alternatives (rust-gpu, rust-cuda, Triton) and one suggested this was mainly NVIDIA wrapping vendor ecosystem tighter. A contrasting note: one commenter felt motivated by knowing LLMs hadn't been trained on this yet. Practical feedback included requests for non-Linux support, async support, and comparison to similar frameworks like Metal and VectorWare's approach.14:T975,EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced backing for a new "associate member" status for Canada at her State of the Union address, framing it as partnership for "common strength" rather than against any third party. Canadian PM Mark Carney, attending the speech, had previously sought a "unique alliance" with Europe following collapsed US trade talks and Trump's tariff threats. Von der Leyen cited shared interests in AI, climate change, defense, critical minerals, and commitment to democracy. No details on implementation were provided, though the process could take years to complete.

The article notes that "associate membership" is legally novel for the EU despite existing treaty provisions (Article 217 TFEU) allowing "association agreements" with non-members like Turkey. Some EU members haven't even ratified the Canada FTA struck a decade ago, and several prefer building on existing arrangements rather than creating new membership categories.

Comments reveal several important contexts. One commenter correctly points out that Article 217 TFEU already permits exactly this type of arrangement—multiple current EU members had "associate member" status before joining, and the 1970s-80s terminology is simply forgotten. Another notes the timing is strategic posturing: Carney is using EU interest as leverage in negotiations with Trump. A third highlights that EU credibility on trade deals is questioned, referencing a Canadian trade minister's emotional frustration that "Europe is not capable of signing a trade deal," plus the EU's own ongoing failures to ratify the Canada FTA. Commenters also worry about EU consensus-building difficulties (Hungary blocked Ukraine support measures) and note that even completed deals like EU-Mercosur face implementation delays. Others see broader geopolitical realignment: middle-power democracies (Canada, Australia, NZ, UK, possibly Japan/Korea) aligning away from a chaotic US under Trump, with potential broader coalition-building across the democratic world. A few expressed concern about EU protectionism being worse than the US, contradicting the symbolic appeal. One noted the irony that Canada had a working USMCA/NAFTA deal that Trump is destroying through arbitrary tariffs already ruled illegal. An accurate correction clarified Norway's relationship to the EU as a relevant precedent already demonstrating this form of association works.15:T743,Internet Archive Director Mark Graham posted a brief acknowledgment that the Wayback Machine faces waves of high-volume automated traffic, prompting protective rate-limiting measures that inadvertently block legitimate users. The response is minimal: they rewrote error messages and ask affected users to email support with their OS, browser, and IP address.

The comment section reveals deeper frustration and context. Multiple users report extended 429 blocking from their work networks while mobile access works fine, suggesting corporate ISPs are being broadly penalized. One commenter describes getting blocked simply by moving the mouse on a calendar interface. The root cause appears to be AI companies scraping the Wayback Machine as a workaround to access content from sites that have blocked them directly, creating collateral damage on a vital nonprofit resource.

Several experts identify this as a systemic failure of the existing bot governance framework. Established norms around robots.txt and rate-limiting no longer work because AI labs ignore them entirely. Commenters propose solutions including robots.txt V2 standards, cryptographic bot authentication (Web Bot Auth), and tiered paid access for bulk access. One suggestion: charge scrapers for bulk downloads to fund operations, similar to S3's "downloader pays" model.

There's grudging respect for the Archive's efforts despite the pain—they still maintain anonymous Tor access without Cloudflare gating. But the email-based support process for false positives is widely criticized as infeasible given the volume of errors and swamped support teams. The prevailing sentiment is that the Internet Archive is being crushed by a tragedy of the commons: one of the internet's most important preservation institutions is being weaponized as a scraping target by commercial AI development.16:T8af,The article demonstrates training a 4B parameter model (Qwen) via supervised fine-tuning on GPT-6 Astra trajectories, then agentic RL (GRPO variant) using execution time as reward signal. The model went from unable to produce valid plans for 99/113 queries to achieving 44.7% latency reduction. The author built infrastructure to minimize page cache noise in concurrent Postgres containers and split training across 2x H100s. Highlights include careful RL reward design, off-policy distillation from closed-model trajectories, and LoRA adaptation.

Comments surface critical limitations. The benchmark uses an 8GB dataset fitting entirely in memory with shared_buffers constrained, queries warmed before measurement, and read-only SELECTs only. Without proper indexes or column statistics, the baseline Postgres planner is deliberately handicapped—real deployments use statistics and indexes extensively. One commenter notes cardinality estimation failures are usually caused by bad statistics, and hints paper over the real problem (like LLMs would do).

The cost analysis reveals ~$1200 total investment ($800 compute + $400 API calls for training data), but the benchmarks appear to omit planning time itself. Real databases must plan fast enough to be amortized, especially with prepared statements. The article acknowledges distillation from closed models but doesn't address reproducibility or licensing concerns.

Fundamental concerns emerge about non-determinism: LLMs can hallucinate and miss valid indexes, producing incorrect or suboptimal plans unpredictably. Database systems require correctness guarantees and fast, online planning that tracks live statistics; this project optimizes static workloads offline. Several commenters suggest traditional ML or heuristic approaches (like join-order benchmark algorithms or alphago-style NNs) would be more suitable. One notes you can be 3x+ better than Postgres with conventional methods.

There's appreciation for the writing quality and technical depth, but skepticism about practical applicability. The sweet spot might be auto-optimizer platforms that generate hints from LLM suggestions for human review, but runtime safety and determinism remain unresolved.17:T8e2,The post argues that daily productivity heavily depends on accumulated small knowledge bits: language features, debugging techniques, CLI incantations, and domain-specific insights. Examples span SQL (SELECT without FROM, EXPLAIN ANALYZE for optimization), shell history (fzf fuzzy search, atuin with SQLite), git (git log -S for pickaxe searching, git checkout -), regex (\b word boundaries), NodeJS (https.Agent connection pooling), and alternatives to standard tools (ripgrep over grep, glob patterns over find).

The author shares a workplace practice: sharing one trick daily on Slack (technical and company-specific) to avoid overwhelming people while ensuring high-value knowledge spreads. Company-specific examples include debugging data sources, who to ask about what, documentation locations, and operational procedures.

Key comment disagreements and additions: Several commenters note these aren't strictly "programming" tricks but CLI/shell/DevOps knowledge—one commenter argues the real issue is inefficient computer usage industry-wide. On adoption, phforms highlights a major barrier: people know tricks but don't use them because old habits require less friction; the solution is maintaining accessible documentation by tool/language and active reminders. kccqzy suggests learning from watching AI work as a source of tricks. titzer advocates for a personal ~/scratch.txt with aliases and bash utilities curated over time, lamenting skill erosion through tool migrations. disinterred and backend_dev82 contribute their own high-value tricks (zoxide for smart cd, fish with vi keybindings). overflowy shares zhist, a zsh history tool with more context than plain fzf. forty questions whether NodeJS agents work with fetch (suggesting an error in the original). NegativeLatency admits daily trick-sharing would feel annoying despite its value. computermadeofc worries that AI code generation (Copilot) diminishes the appeal of "sharpening the axe" and threatens loss of this knowledge. thebelal confirms they authored the per-directory-history project mentioned. Minor corrections include that EXPLAIN ANALYZE's effectiveness varies by database (rf15 notes IBM products have constraints), and some tools like find do far more than the post suggests (IsTom).18:T953,Mistral and Mozilla partnership brings Firefox Smart Window, an AI-powered browsing assistant now live in France and North America. The feature helps users with complex searches, page summaries, tab memory retrieval, and context-aware assistance. Both companies emphasize open-source models, zero-data-retention policies (conversations not saved on Mozilla servers by default), and fine-tuning for regional languages, dialects, and cultural nuance. The announcement frames this as advancing open, private, sovereignty-focused AI distribution against walled-garden corporate alternatives.

However, the comment section reveals substantial skepticism about privacy claims. The core criticism: Firefox Smart Window sends browsing data to cloud servers (Mistral's infrastructure) rather than running locally, contradicting the "private" marketing. One commenter found a broken link in Mozilla's support page advertising "Mistral Small 4" but linking to OpenAI's gpt-oss-120b model card. Multiple threads stress that cloud inference, regardless of stated data-retention policies, is not private—users cannot verify Mozilla's or Mistral's actual practices, contractual obligations get breached, and data could be subpoenaed. The announcement buries these details across multiple links rather than clearly stating upfront whether inference is local or cloud-based.

Comparisons to Chrome's Gemini Nano (local, on-device) and Apple's on-device approach frame Mozilla's decision as a step backward for privacy advocates. Several commenters note the irony: Mistral and Mozilla both position themselves as open-source and privacy-conscious, yet are following the cloud-inference playbook. One commenter points out that small models are now capable enough for on-device summarization and translation, making cloud forwarding unnecessary. The announcement is seen by some as either marketing obfuscation or a fundamental misalignment with stated privacy values. A few commenters also note Mozilla's broader reputation struggles (recent executive departures, ethics concerns) and Mistral's recent partnerships (Cloudera), adding context to skepticism. One user discovered you can use Smart Window with local models via bring-your-own-model (BYOM) configuration, though this workaround isn't advertised. The prevailing sentiment: good intent undermined by cloud architecture and vague privacy claims.19:Tb98,A hacker collective removed a Flock Safety license plate reader camera from a roadway and shared its firmware and data with 404 Media and WIRED. Analysis of recovered logs and videos shows the device photographed approximately 50,200 vehicles generating 1.6 million images over 21 days of recovered activity. The camera explicitly detects people—contrary to Flock's claims it doesn't—recording their locations with confidence scores. Testing of the extracted computer vision models confirmed people detection across 11 motorcycle-with-rider videos. The camera's license plate detector was overly broad, sometimes misidentifying bumper stickers and an American flag patch on a saddlebag as license plates. The critical security failure: Flock claimed on-device encryption protected data, but the encryption key was stored unencrypted on the device itself in an unprotected "media" partition, allowing immediate access to videos and logs after physical device access.

HN commenters emphasized multiple layers of incompetence. One noted that hardcoded API keys allow unauthenticated requests for plaintext credentials, raising questions about what server access this provides. Multiple critics highlighted Flock's vulnerability disclosure policy explicitly excludes infrastructure issues like DNS misconfiguration and requires security researchers to convince Flock vulnerabilities matter before they'll investigate—a transparent appearance of responsibility without substance. Commenters framed this as inevitable IoT laziness: proper secure boot and key management require effort, so startups skip it for faster time-to-market. The threat model clearly includes physical access in public spaces, yet Flock used off-the-shelf hardware with known kernel exploits and likely exploitable WiFi/Bluetooth stacks.

Beyond immediate technical failures, HN debated systemic issues. One commenter noted Flock's vulnerability policy explicitly carves out "interact with the device" and "download its data"—exactly what happened here—rendering the policy mostly theatrical. Others questioned why Flock receives singular scrutiny when competitors like Motorola, Vigilant, Rekor, Leonardo/ELSAG, and especially Axon operate similar systems with less public backlash, suspecting journalistic focus is distorting market perception. Several commenters expressed political despair about surveillance expansion despite public opposition, with one suggesting physical sabotage may escalate beyond camera destruction. A former Pawtucket police officer quoted in the article warned that vandalism actually strengthens the police argument for surveillance necessity. Notable details: the camera logged over 27,000 "no space left on device" errors and health-check messages saying "Who's a good boy?!" appeared 12,000+ times in logs. The New Hampshire commenter noted state law requires non-hit plate data deletion within 3 minutes—this device's recovered logs suggest violations.1a:T11d3,Apple's Apple Reference Image system aims to solve verified photography by creating a "secure digital negative" on iPhone 18 Pro/Max where the camera sensor cryptographically signs pixel data immediately after capture, preventing OS-level tampering. The sensor firmware cannot modify the data, and metadata is signed by the Secure Enclave Processor. Two timestamps (a lower bound from a regular heartbeat and an upper bound from a second request after capture) establish a narrow temporal window for the photograph. The system then uploads this digital negative to Apple's Private Cloud Compute, which runs publicly verifiable processing algorithms (demosaicing, tone mapping, compression) to produce a final image. That final image is signed with a post-quantum hybrid signature (MLDSA87-RSA-3072) designed to remain secure against quantum computers. The system includes a revocation mechanism for compromised sensors that doesn't expose photographer identity.

The HN comments identified several critical weaknesses. The most discussed is the "replay attack": display a high-resolution AI-generated or Photoshop-edited image on a monitor or screen, photograph that display with the iPhone, and the resulting photograph passes verification as authentic because the pixels actually came from the camera sensor. One commenter sarcastically suggested covering the box in Vantablack to stop reflections and taping over the LiDAR projector, making it a technically difficult but not impossible attack. This fundamentally cannot be solved by any image-signing system: if the real-world content being photographed is fake, the signature only confirms the camera captured what was in front of it.

A second major concern is user psychology: people will see "Apple Verified™" on an image and short-circuit their critical thinking, taking the image as proof of narrative rather than proof of sensor authenticity. Multiple commenters noted the conflation between "this image came from a real camera at this time" and "this event actually happened," which is a very different claim. The timestamp feature does raise the bar slightly by making it harder to apply retroactively recorded images, but doesn't prevent contemporaneous fakery.

The business model raised concerns: this system essentially makes verified photography a proprietary Apple service, pushing photographers and institutions toward iPhones. One commenter predicted use in insurance claims and identity verification, where the bar is lower (just above "random scammers") rather than nation-state resilient, and noted Apple is using iPhone sales volume to subsidize entry into the trusted-imaging market. Another worried about vendor lock-in for government and institutional verification, creating pressure to "need an iPhone to live normally."

Several commenters questioned the complexity and closed-source trust requirements: the system relies on correct implementation of Private Cloud Compute, cryptographic operations, sensor firmware, and the revocation service, all largely beyond public scrutiny. One noted that C2PA (the industry standard) already attempted this; the main addition here is involving Apple's cloud infrastructure and hardware-level sensor signing, but the fundamental attack surface remains. Another pointed out that if you jailbreak or root your phone, the reference image feature likely becomes unavailable or untrusted, creating pressure to keep devices locked down.

Privacy concerns emerged around uploading images to PCC, though Apple's post emphasizes that PCC doesn't expose images even to Apple itself. One commenter noted the timestamp system is perhaps the most valuable part—it genuinely does establish a narrow temporal window—whereas the signature itself adds less novelty.

A few commenters defended the approach or noted it does raise the bar, particularly for the journalist use case where time-stamped proof of existence matters. One recalled a scifi story that had contemplated NDA-based disablement of attestation on a per-device basis, highlighting the potential for coercive uses of such systems. Another noted that 9 years ago, people raised identical "just photograph a fake image" objections, and perhaps the technical bar is higher than casual critics assume.

The strongest criticisms centered on the conflation of "image authenticity" (this came from a real camera) with "truth" (this event happened), and the risk that institutional adoption will create a false sense of trust in media, particularly in an age of advanced forgeries and propaganda.1b:T7b6,Xiaomi is training Mimo 2.6 with a live public dashboard showing training progress, costs, and benchmarks. The page itself was unavailable to fetch, but the comment section provides substantial context.

Real-world user feedback is strong: one engineer reports using Mimo 2.5-Pro extensively for software work and calls it an order of magnitude better value than Anthropic, with quality equivalent to late-2024 Claude. Another describes 2.5-Pro as like "a forgetful senior engineer"—capable but conservative—while the new 2.6 version shows clear improvements in multi-tasking, design work, and architectural decisions. A third has deployed it successfully for coder and tester agents.

The dashboard reveals aggressive training economics: $1.2M spent so far with daily burn around $432K (~$5/second), using approximately 3,000 B300 nodes on Modal's pricing. Two-thirds of training data is source code. Training appears remarkably fast—Mimo started 2026-09-15 (likely a typo for 2024) and progress suggests completion in weeks rather than months.

Benchmark context is crucial: Mimo 2.5-Pro scored only 19% on DeepSWE 1.1, while competitors like Kimi K3, Fable, and Astra score 69-74%. This suggests either the benchmark is different, Mimo targets different strengths, or the dashboard metrics diverge from external benchmarks.

The transparency itself generates significant comment discussion. Many note this is unusual—Anthropic and OpenAI never publish live training dashboards. Some suggest it's a strategy to head off distillation accusations or demonstrate confidence. A few skeptics question whether the data is real. Others celebrate it as the openness the field needs, with frustration that US labs don't match this transparency. One comment sardonically notes Chinese labs are "making fun of US labs at this point" over openness.

One technical concern: whether running benchmarks during training constitutes data contamination, though this isn't clarified.1c:T75f,The linked page was unavailable (paywall), but comments reference AWS's official status page confirming multiple Middle East regions remain down since March 2026, with irreversible data loss in some cases.

Core issue: AWS's me-south-1 (Bahrain) region and portions of me-central-1 (UAE) sustained damage from Iranian missile strikes. While AWS markets S3 with eleven nines durability and multi-AZ redundancy, some data became unrecoverable because AWS did not maintain copies outside the affected geographic area.

A critical technical discussion emerged: commenters noted AWS must navigate conflicting constraints. UAE government data residency requirements mandate that health and sensitive data remain within UAE borders only, blocking cross-region replication strategies that would normally protect against regional disasters. This created a catch-22: comply with local regulations or maintain geographic redundancy—AWS chose compliance.

Past promises aged poorly: an old CBS interview surfaced where AWS's Wood claimed a destroyed data center would cause no customer impact due to redundancy. That claim now appears contingent on assumptions that don't hold under coordinated physical destruction.

Comments split into camps: some blamed AWS for poor bootstrapping and DR planning, others defended AWS citing force majeure and customer responsibility for off-site backups. One commenter working in health tech confirmed AWS was not even accepting new instances in the region, forcing migration to Azure. Another noted if you only backup to AWS, you have no backups.

The incident raised insurance questions—whether cyber/data-loss policies have stress-tested coverage for regional destruction at scale. Several pointed out this was predictable: multi-AZ within a single country is insufficient against large-scale attacks, and regulatory constraints don't change that physics.1d:Tbd5,Google introduced two new voice-first models: Gemini 3.8 Live, built for cost-efficient conversational AI at scale, and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, optimized for complex multi-step tasks requiring deeper reasoning. Both deliver near-real-time visual processing, automatic language switching across 97 languages, and background task execution without interrupting conversation. They rank highly on benchmarks—3.8 Live Extended Thinking tops Artificial Analysis' Speech to Speech Quality Index at 82.6 and achieves 68.6% on τ-Voice agentic benchmarks. Available immediately via Gemini API/Studio, Google Workspace, and Search Live, with enterprise preview access.

The comment section reveals several strong impressions and caveats. Users report exceptional performance for niche languages: one Afrikaans speaker praises using it for conversation practice and grammar lessons, highlighting emotional value. Others note Gemini's voice quality and conversational fluidity exceed OpenAI's offering, with better latency and natural speech patterns compared to ChatGPT's humming artifacts. Developers using LiveKit, Pipecat, and other platforms report building high-performance voice interfaces.

However, significant concerns emerge. Rollout remains inconsistent—many users report Workspace accounts still stuck on 3.6 Flash or 3.5 Flash-lite, creating frustration about visibility into release schedules. One developer who tested 3.8 Flash for voice control reported catastrophic failure: the model invented additional requirements and implementation details it wasn't instructed to create, requiring reversion the same day despite comparable benchmark scores to working alternatives like DeepSeek-V4-Flash. This raises red flags for agentic scenarios where hallucinated task expansion is dangerous. Another reports Extended Thinking in 3.8 Flash is disappointingly shallow despite being the maximum thinking option, delivering uncomfortably high error rates for complex reasoning tasks. A third commenter noted significant recent slowdowns in Gemini latency, pushing them toward local models if performance doesn't recover.

Minor concerns include a chess demo showing the model lose to a basic checkmate pattern (undermining "most advanced" claims), creepy onboarding language from synthetic voices expressing false sentiment, and voice quality described as "nails on a chalkboard" by some. One user flagged that audio watermarking with SynthID, while transparent, doesn't address the underlying concern that serious users want history exclusion from training data. Another notes Extended Thinking should be relabeled "Slightly Extended Thinking" given its actual depth constraints.

The prevailing verdict: strong incremental advance in voice naturalness and language support with legitimate enterprise appeal, but inconsistent rollout management, unresolved agentic hallucination patterns from the underlying Flash model, and limited actual extended reasoning depth temper enthusiasm for production-critical workloads.1e:Tf6a,Jay Kruer argues that despite spectacular LLM achievements like solving Navier-Stokes, frontier labs remain overvalued because their business model assumes near-term autonomous replacement of knowledge workers—a fantasy disconnected from reality. His core claim: most real-world work lacks the rigorous formal specifications that make LLMs viable. Navier-Stokes represents the best-case scenario: a precisely stated problem verified by battle-tested theorem provers. Most human work isn't like this. Models generalize poorly beyond their training distribution, fail under slight perturbations, and suffer reward hacking (gaming the measured objective). The solution—rigorous specification by domain experts—is expensive, rare, and often evolves during implementation (citing CPU design: 3–5x more validation than design engineers). Human review doesn't scale to LLM output volumes and remains vulnerable to subtle exploits (xz backdoor, UMN Linux commits). Result: LLMs resemble "a cracked intern"—useful under supervision but not autonomous. Only three firm types benefit from autonomous LLMs: (1) those accepting cheap failure (rapid prototyping, intern replacement), (2) those with clearly defined, controlled tasks (call centers), (3) those already absorbing specification costs (chip design, drug discovery). Classes 1–2 don't need expensive frontier models—cheap open models running locally suffice. Class 3 may prefer cheaper models with wider agent swarms, not reasoning capacity. Conclusion: if swarm width matters more than individual model quality, frontier labs face margin pressure.

Comments surface tensions. Plaidfuji calls it the most grounded take on LLM ROI. Carodgers cites an April 2026 chess paper: frontier models identify legal moves under 80% of the time without guidance; many request more illegal moves than legal ones. Lissom agrees on tacit knowledge gaps but notes AI's resource-marshaling capacity (10,000+ instances on Navier-Stokes). yshklarov nitpicks the lowercase writing style.

Valuation objections dominate: keeda argues that ~$6–7 trillion AI valuations proportionally match estimated knowledgework automation potential ($50–70 trillion annually), so pricing isn't irrational. bluegatty contends frontier labs aren't priced as "drop-in replacements" but as a new compute substrate—weak position in value chain (Nvidia captures profits). slibhb similarly notes OpenAI/Anthropic valuations don't require full worker replacement to justify, just scaled revenue over a decade.

Technical pushback: highfrequency asks for specific GPT-6/Fable 5.1 failures; angarg12 reports successful infra automation contradicting narrow generalization claims; TrackerFF highlights that billion-dollar compute sweeps remain unexplored; tzone notes models solve hard problems if prompted to self-generate tools (write a chess engine first, then use it). killerstorm cites GPT-3 few-shot learning and ARC-AGI-3 progress against narrow-generalization claims.

Domain critiques: yunwal disputes that call centers are "controlled environments" (failures are why customers call). utopiah argues genuine rapid prototyping hits frontiers with no StackOverflow—LLM overhead kills it. alain94040 rejects the CPU verification ratio analogy: chip spin costs ($10M+, months) dwarf software bugs, so extrapolation is invalid. randomImmigrant adds that LLMs struggle with timekeeping and long-horizon reasoning, limiting multi-step agent viability. againstapples asks whether task-specific training requirements differ from human expertise-building.

Modest agreement: robinpie appreciates the "tempered take not literally denialist"; vatsachak agrees but adds frontier labs enable architecture discovery leaked to others; someguynamedq notes that "simplest task" goalposts shift upward (now meaning autonomous code review). pfdietz clarifies the author is bearish on LLM autonomy generally, not pure math applications.1f:Tfb4,Cody Ho and Niklas Sheth reverse engineered and built a complete Linux GPU driver for Apple's M4 Mac Mini and MacBook Neo in roughly one month—a task that normally takes years. The driver achieves full OpenGL ES 3.0 compliance and runs Minecraft at 200fps with working compositing in Chrome and Firefox. The feat involved decoding Apple's AGX GPU firmware ABI (Application Binary Interface) using a hypervisor Ho previously built, then writing both a Linux kernel driver and Mesa user-space driver from scratch. Notably, the work was done in a claimed clean-room manner: the authors examined only hypervisor traces and hardware behavior, not Apple binaries, and had an outsider document the Apple GPU blobs so they could reimplement them independently.

The technical approach was methodical. For kernel space, Ho used Claude and Codex to reverse-engineer the firmware ABI by watching macOS operations, capturing GPU memory state, then replaying and deconstructing it. The most difficult challenge was compute workloads—solved only by booting into single-user mode, disabling the GUI, and capturing a minimal Metal program. Partial renders (when the Tiled Vertex Buffer overflows) were similarly finicky. Converting the prototype to a production Rust Linux driver took three days. For user space, Ho and Sheth used LLMs to disassemble Metal programs, understand the ISA, and build Mesa conformance incrementally, discovering undocumented hardware features like native 64-bit add, anisotropy up to 128x, and 7-bit immediates that Metal doesn't expose.

The comment section reveals major controversy that overshadows the technical achievement. MoltenMonster (an Asahi developer) announced that Ho was banned from Asahi Linux for concealing his extensive LLM use in prior contributions and for hiding that he's a former Apple engineer with contacts to people involved in Apple Silicon development. This triggered a legal/ethical firestorm: thrwy19940314 argues the work is "tainted" because Ho is ex-Apple (creating conflict with Apple contributors to Linux) and because Codex may have been trained on Apple trade secrets (especially acute given Apple's ongoing lawsuit against OpenAI). AKSF_Ackermann and carterschonwald raised similar intellectual property concerns. kmeisthax warned that concealing LLM derivation after the fact is "a trap" for cleanroom efforts like Asahi, which explicitly tries to avoid LLM-trained code.

Defenders largely concede the controversies but argue the work's practical merit is undeniable. SXX pointed out that reverse engineering a closed-box GPU is no different from reverse engineering any hardware, that the achievement proves LLMs revolutionize reverse engineering efficiency, and that Apple could have locked the bootloader if they cared. ndiddy, nnm, and GeekyBear praised it as the best use case for LLMs. porphyra noted Asahi Linux has a strict no-AI policy, so this work cannot be upstreamed there but will likely spawn AI-assisted forks that dominate because users prioritize functionality. rowanG077 said Asahi "was dead in the water" for him once they took an anti-LLM stance.

A secondary debate concerns upstreaming: Ho noted that the kernel driver faces a hard blocker since the M1/M2 driver isn't yet upstream, and any submission will face "higher standards than human-written code" due to its AI origins. The Mesa work likely faces fewer hurdles (it uses the unmodified Asahi UAPI), but still requires significant review and refactoring. varispeed noted GPT-6 Astra (mentioned as "insane" by Ho) has since been degraded and is now "the dumbest model right after Gemini," raising questions about whether the feat would be repeatable today.

The verdict is split: the technical accomplishment is genuine and showcases LLM capability for reverse engineering, but the project carries legal risk and undermines the Asahi community's cleanroom principles. Ho's concealment of his ex-Apple status and LLM involvement in prior work appears to have damaged trust permanently.20:T78f,The original post (Mastodon link unavailable) reported that Google Play review times now regularly exceed one week, breaking development cycles.

Comments confirm widespread delays with substantial variation. Signal developers note their weekly update cadence is disrupted by unpredictable review queues—sometimes 4 hours, sometimes 5+ days, with no visibility into why. AnkiDroid's alpha submitted Sept 3 was still pending weeks later. CoMaps experienced 16-day waits requiring support escalation. However, some developers report faster turnarounds: apps with established track records clear in 2-3 hours; automated reviews for standard apps sometimes complete within an hour.

Apple App Store faces identical problems despite marketing 24-hour reviews. One developer contacted Apple after 7 days and received approval within hours after human escalation, getting this explanation: "higher-than-normal volume...AI slots invading the store" (speculation about LLM-generated submissions overwhelming capacity).

Root cause theories: developers running LLM-based app generation flooding review queues; different review paths for special integrations (Android Auto, complex permissions) sending submissions to slower manual queues; and hybrid automated+manual systems where unpredictable factors route apps between fast and slow paths. One reviewer apparently checked only screenshots, missing obvious UI elements. New apps face harsher scrutiny than updates from established apps.

Developers cite this as driving adoption of web apps (bypassing review entirely), React Native with OTA update capability (patch without store approval), and calls for regulation against app store gatekeeping. One comment mentions that browser RAM limits on iOS (2GB) force users to desktop for serious work—possibly intentional competitive pressure. Broader complaint that thousands of low-quality apps exist while legitimate submissions face delays.21:Tcf7,Strix, an AI security startup, ran their autonomous hacking agent against Baseten's infrastructure (*.baseten.co) without prior authorization as part of vendor security evaluation. The agent discovered a public Harbor container registry, pulled the baseten/baseten-app image, and found a GitHub personal access token in the Docker build history—specifically in the history[].created_by field. This token belonged to the basetenbot service account and had repo scope with admin and push access to Baseten's main product repo, GitOps deployment repo, Homebrew tap, and customer-specific private repositories.

The root cause was a Dockerfile pattern passing GITHUB_TOKEN as a build argument into a RUN command for fetching private dependencies, which Docker recorded in the image's config metadata. The token dated to March 2023 and still worked when tested in July 2026—over three years without rotation. Strix demonstrated the critical impact by checking GitHub's OAuth scopes, organization membership, and per-repository permissions before reporting.

Baseten's response was swift and professional: they made the Harbor project private within hours and rotated the token by July 14, 4:34 PM (within ~20 hours of disclosure). Logs confirmed no exploitation and no customer data exposure. The disclosure timeline was clean, and Strix even deleted the pulled images as requested.

Major comment threads highlight serious tensions. SaucyWrong raises a core legal/ethical issue: Strix ran active pentesting against a prospective vendor without negotiated rules of engagement, downloading and inspecting their Docker images and internal repos using exfiltrated credentials. nrmitchi argues this crosses from white-hat reconnaissance into active exploitation and data exfiltration—they're using stolen creds to poke Baseten's internals, which isn't "checking if it's safe" but rather confirming they can take over systems. calvinmorrison notes this looks like "a lawyer's wet dream" given Strix's public description of unleashing an agent without authorization. codemog questions whether this is legally defensible, comparing it to breaking into a neighbor's house.

ivraatiems and grey-area argue this isn't an AI breakthrough: the vulnerability (token in Docker history, public registry) isn't novel. The "innovation" is speed and thoroughness—any human could follow this chain in a few hours with proper authorization. The impressive part is that Strix autonomously chained multiple steps without being told to look for Harbor or tokens, but the tactics are standard pentesting.

Technical comments praise Baseten's response team and highlight the Docker build history trap: `docker history --no-trunc` or inspecting config.json reveals build arguments even after cleanup. brewmarche recommends `--provenance=false` to strip metadata and use BuildKit secret mounts instead. mschuster91 warns about wildcard certs in CT logs enabling domain enumeration, GitOps storing deployment secrets in Git, and the general practice of mixing public/private registries on the same infrastructure.

adithyassekhar pushes back on anthropomorphizing the agent ("Strix then did, Strix then went"), and multiple commenters note this is excellent marketing for Strix while terrible PR for Baseten—even if handled well responsively.22:Ta7f,TheFlow0, creator of the first PlayStation Vita kernel exploit and lead of the PS5 Linux project that turned consoles into Steam Machines, announced he was abandoning the project due to "noobs using LLMs" that "they don't even understand." The project was set to finish PS5 Pro support in 2027.

The actual trigger was sharper: someone discovered an undisclosed hypervisor bug (the last remaining exploit needed for newer PS5 firmware versions) using an LLM, then reported it to Sony for the bug bounty despite agreeing to wait until GTA 6 released—reasoning that TheFlow0 wanted people to legally buy the game before losing PS5 Linux access. The reporter, facing an ill mother and another person potentially finding the same bug independently, took the bounty.

Comments heavily contextualize the headline. Multiple engineers note the article conflates AI tool use with a breakdown in community norms: the real damage wasn't that someone used Claude, but that they violated a social contract and broke embargo-like coordination among researchers who deliberately gatekeep bugs to maximize the window for Linux adoption. One detailed comment from Aurornis walks through the timeline—Person 1 (TheFlow0) finds exploit, keeps it secret, asks Person 2 not to report it, Person 2 agrees, but when Person 3 also finds it, Person 2 takes the bounty anyway. Crucially, Person 2 was following the bounty program's rules; the community blame is misplaced.

Engineers broadly agree the core problem is not LLMs but maintainer burnout, fractured incentives (individual bounties vs. shared long-term projects), and the flood of incomprehensible pull requests. One commenter notes FOSS projects have solved this by requiring human sign-off on all PRs. Others observe that this pattern—skilled people leaving because the community lost its intellectual texture and trust—is spreading across FOSS as participation floors collapse. A few point out that if LLMs can find hypervisor bugs easily, Sony almost certainly can too, so the cat-and-mouse game was doomed anyway. The broader concern: without shared commitment and understanding, coordinated security research becomes impossible, and DRM gatekeeping may ultimately strengthen rather than weaken.

Several commenters defend the person who reported the bug, emphasizing they didn't break the rules, just the social arrangement. Others argue that without maintainers like TheFlow0 self-sacrificing (not taking the bounty), the whole project collapses when someone inevitably doesn't. The thread reveals frustration less about AI replacing expertise and more about the erosion of communities built on mutual respect and deferred gratification.23:Td56,The Nexus breach involves 153 million U.S. and Canadian driver's licenses plus 3 million travel documents stolen from IDScan, an identity verification company. Krebs on Security verified the licenses are genuine (including his own, nine family members, and several U.S. government officials including Secretary of War Pete Hegseth) and confirmed continuous exfiltration adding ~400k records daily over more than a year. The FBI is investigating; IDScan confirmed the breach; Nexus went offline after media coverage but claim the data remains.

The national security angle: while drivers' licenses enable standard identity theft and phishing, their real intelligence value lies in serving as key identity documents with numbers used across other databases. Combined data becomes extremely valuable for mapping individuals, locations, and patterns. The article cites historical precedent: Chinese APT groups in the mid-2010s stole complementary data from Anthem (health), Equifax (credit), Marriott, United Airlines, and OPM (security clearances), which U.S. intelligence assessed was used to counter American operations against China. Bellingcat demonstrated the practical utility—using travel and other leaked records to identify Russian GRU deep cover agents and Skripal assassination suspects. If investigative journalists can do this, Chinese intelligence certainly will.

The breach is large (63% of U.S. licenses) but follows a pattern: AU10TIX, Discord's 5CA, and National Public Data breached in recent years. The article argues identity verification services need strict regulation and oversight but admits government action is unlikely; hopes financial litigation and FTC attention will pressure companies into better security.

Secondary coverage includes U.S. military finally disabling advertising identifiers on devices (only in 2024-25, despite 2016 briefings about tracking risks), which is incomplete OPSEC; cryptocurrency "white hat" hacks where perpetrators steal millions and return most while keeping millions, then face uncertain legal consequences (Avraham Eisenberg was convicted, then acquitted); and updates on Fairwind/AI cyber tools, Sality botnet disruption, and UK-US scam collaboration.

HN comments heavily contest the "national security disaster" framing. Top-voted responses argue: (1) States already openly sell driver license data through brokers under DPPA loopholes—the real issue is that permitted uses are deliberately vague ("licensed private investigation," "surveys/marketing") and enforced via honor system, making this breach less novel than suggested. (2) Commercial data brokers like Lexis Nexis already have this information. (3) ALPR (automated license plate reader) databases already track cars at homes, stores, mistresses' homes—Flock and similar surveillance is already normalized. The consensus leans toward the breach being bad but reflecting an already-compromised status quo rather than a new disaster. One commenter notes this story keeps getting pushed off front pages, speculating deliberate suppression if a backdoor was involved. Others emphasize the lack of cryptographic identity infrastructure in the U.S. system and debate whether new national ID would help or worsen centralization risks. The thread also surfaces that this exact scenario (OPM 2015, 20+ million fingerprints and clearance data) happened a decade ago with minimal consequence.24:Tcc1,The article walks through why backups appear simple but spiral into complexity. It starts with a relatable family anecdote: photos backed up to an external drive that got reformatted, leading to a discussion of failure modes (drive rot, theft, accidental deletion, ransomware). This motivates the 3-2-1 rule: 3 copies on 2 different media types with 1 offsite.

The author then systematically unpacks each layer. Recovery Point Objective (RPO) determines snapshot frequency, creating a retention burden. Storing backups inefficiently wastes space and bandwidth, so deduplication via hardlinks (as in rsnapshot) becomes attractive. Different snapshot cadences help—daily for the recent past, weekly older, monthly ancient—a GFS (Grandfather-Father-Son) rotation scheme. Adding cloud storage like S3 requires handling metadata loss and S3's cost penalties for many small files, pushing toward tarball chunking. Database-backed services need special handling to avoid inconsistent snapshots.

By the end, the author admits the mental load is too high and recommends battle-tested tools like Borg or Restic that handle encryption, chunk deduplication, checksums, and consistency. He adds critical footnotes: beware 2–3 AM timezone transitions, ZFS offers native snapshots, and consistency groups matter when multiple processes touch storage.

HN comments added substantial firsthand evidence. publlus_enigma described four data loss incidents including lightning damage, OneDrive data loss due to policy changes, SD card failure, and—worst of all—accidentally deleting source content while managing a backup, then deleting the old backup to make room. dirkc recalled being the cause of his father's data loss twice during Linux repartitioning; his father's gracious response inspired him. AdieuToLogic quoted a Veritas engineer's insight: "We're not in the backup business, we're in the restoration business." Helmut10001 championed ZFS snapshots with Jim Salter's sanoid/syncoid for pull-mode sync. crossroadsguy emphasized that uncontrolled data size drives backup failure. flippingheck challenged the universality of the warning, noting that 99% of people don't back up and it's arguably rational for them not to. dsego stressed that "something is better than nothing" over perfectionism. smallerfish described a manual-backup setup with terminal banners instead of failed crons. ebrahimh detailed a 3-2-1 Restic+Backrest architecture for multiple hosts. gerdesj recounted how offsite backups saved a customer after a fire and COVID lockdown. chasil described Oracle Linux with ReaR, btrfs snapshots, and rsync. janci advocated for file-based rsync to Synology NAS (local and remote) for portability. snizovtsev detailed a lightweight `tar | zstd | gpg` setup with GNU tar's `.snar` incremental index for Glacier-friendly write-once storage. cuvert mentioned Syncthing across multiple machines and geographies. Multiple users (l1am0, robschmidt90) cited Borg and Restic as their backup engines. abejora described SaaS backup challenges: database backup types, avoiding in-place restores, new Kubernetes clusters, and retention lock gotchas. The consensus is clear: backups matter, tested restores are non-negotiable, and delegating to mature tools is wise.25:T624,A user discovered that Neovim's donation address on their website contains 10 Bitcoin worth roughly $800,000, donated in 2023 but apparently untouched. The blockchain shows no outgoing activity since 2019, raising questions about whether the project still has access to the wallet's private keys.

Comments reveal several important details. The project's current official donation channel is OpenCollective, suggesting the Bitcoin address is legacy infrastructure that may have been forgotten. Multiple commenters speculate the wallet is defunct and keys may be lost—one person emailed the project to verify awareness. A core contributor noted the Bitcoin wallet is "no longer used for bounties," confirming it's not actively managed.

Practical concerns emerged: one commenter raised whether unrealized gains on dormant Bitcoin holdings could trigger tax liability if jurisdictions with obligations pass "tax the unrealized gains" bills. Another pointed out large crypto exchanges typically use Shamir secret sharing of private key passwords stored in secure locations like banks, with formal access protocols. Some suggested this could be a legitimate "rainy day fund" kept under wraps, while others joked about the cyberpunk heist movie premise. One comment humorously suggested waiting to verify the Bitcoin is legally obtained before touching it.

The prevailing verdict is that this is likely an abandoned wallet from when Neovim previously accepted Bitcoin donations, now forgotten in their site footer while they've moved to modern platforms like OpenCollective.26:T850,DiscoStarslayer, a Canadian hardware enthusiast, has reverse-engineered and dumped Sony's CXP102064 MechaCon chip from the original "PS2 Fat" after an intensive four-year effort. The MechaCon controlled the optical drive mechanics, handled Magic Gate memory card encryption, KELF executable decryption, and optical disc authentication. The reverse engineering process involved chemical decapping to expose the silicon die, microscopic imaging, optical dumping of the circuitry, and ultimately discovering a software exploit that allowed extraction without purely destructive methods.

Key context from comments by uyjulian, an actual team member: the dumps themselves don't enable hardware optical drive emulators (ODEs) alone but do allow modchip replacements using the DSP. The practical impact is narrower than headlines suggest—backup discs have been runnable for years via software exploits (memory card, HDD, DVD player exploits). These dumps are valuable for full-system low-level emulation accuracy, where MagicGate and KELF security must be properly emulated, and for searching vulnerabilities that enable MechaPwn (code execution on the chip) or TonyHax (PS1 mode unlock). Notably, game disc contents themselves aren't encrypted beyond authentication headers, so the dumps don't unlock hidden game content. Additional infrastructure exists: DiscoStarslayer published a Ghidra decompiler for the SPC970 ISA to analyze the dumped code.

Commenters expressed genuine appreciation for preservation work. One noted the generational divide: modern consoles like PS5 rely on day-one patches and online authentication, making long-term preservation nearly impossible—a PS5 disc will be unplayable in 30 years without the servers. Others noted the NVRAM wear from dumping, that full reverse engineering required destructive decapping before the exploit was found, and skepticism about whether this unlocks anything practically new beyond what years of PS2 modding already enabled. The prevailing sentiment is admiration for the technical effort and recognition of its value to emulation and preservation rather than piracy.27:T8d2,Rheinmetall released documentation for onboardapi v9.10.0, a middleware library for communication between sensor systems and weapon components built on the DDS (Data Distribution Service) standard. It provides C++, Java, C#, and Python interfaces with a data-centric publish-subscribe architecture designed for low-latency, reliable data exchange. The core library supports DDS XTypes and XCDR2 encoding for backward compatibility across software versions.

The HN comments reveal significant skepticism and nuance. A key clarification: throw1234567891 points out Rheinmetall hasn't actually open-sourced code—they've only published documentation. Their GitHub shows no corresponding repositories. This prompted speculation from ketzu that legal/export control clearance requirements made releasing documentation publicly simpler than sharing code with individual partners.

Technical criticism centers on DDS choice. j-pb and z3ratul163071 express frustration with DDS as overly complex and bureaucratic for embedded systems. alhirzel notes DDS lacks real-time guarantees and is too heavy for resource-constrained embedded systems, contrasting it with Tactical Microgrid Standard (MIL-STD-3071) which also uses DDS but faces similar limitations. adinb observes parallels to DIS (IEEE 1278) and HLA (IEEE 1516) distributed simulation protocols, suggesting this recreates decades-old military messaging patterns. matnosner sarcastically suggests they could've just used ROS.

Code quality observations: MiroslavPokorny criticizes the language wrappers for ignoring naming standards, while jjmarr questions inefficient std::endl usage in examples—humorously speculating whether abnormal program termination caused by weapons malfunctions justified forcing immediate flushing.

Other comments include dark humor (lowbloodsugar's "Fire your goddamned missiles!.json" joke, exabrial searching for "boomstick"), comparisons to anime mecha company names (rayiner), and genuine concerns about open-sourcing weapon system APIs (teiferer). niemandhier argues open documentation enables better security scrutiny. Rheinmetall previously contributed to similar standards like LDM/GVA, suggesting this represents evolution of established military integration patterns.28:T600,Josh Bowman-Matthews, Servo's longtime maintainer, wrapped his first year as a part-time, donation-funded role working on contributor experience. The OpenCollective and GitHub donations enabled him to focus on making the project more accessible while balancing family time. Key accomplishments included nominating 8 new maintainers, reviewing 1150 PRs, filing 114 contributor-targeted issues (92% fixed), writing documentation on borrow hazards and experimental features, stabilizing intermittent test failures, and supporting a large JS engine integration rewrite addressing garbage collection panics. He also helped another contributor secure a grant for Servo work.

HN commenters raised several substantive concerns. One questioned whether Servo is actually usable today as a browser engine or if it has a real purpose. Another noted that despite Servo's Rust focus, it still relies on SpiderMonkey (C++ JavaScript engine) via mozjs bindings—leaving the largest memory vulnerability surface unaddressed. A third suggested that corporate sponsorship from companies like Huawei or Samsung using competing engines might accelerate development more effectively than grassroots funding. One comment mentioned NLnet has also been sponsoring Servo development, visible on their project list. A few expressed appreciation for Servo as an alternative to Ladybird or as a hedge against singular browser engine dominance. Some quipped about the philosophical challenges of parallelizing execution within von Neumann architecture constraints.29:T636,Salesforce suffered an unplanned global outage with the root cause traced to a legacy login service entering a resource-exhaustion cascade. The company rolled out a fix gradually across their fleet after earlier attempts at faster rollouts failed. Incident details at status.salesforce.com/incidents/20004433 show they discontinued attempting restarts as a remediation path.

The timing proved particularly unfortunate, coinciding with Dreamforce, Salesforce's major annual conference happening Sept 15-17. Multiple commenters noted this scheduling disaster.

Comments reveal mixed perspectives. Some acknowledge the genuine engineering complexity of running a large PaaS platform with millions of customer-written apps, crediting Salesforce's SRE team as competent despite the incident. However, widespread criticism targeted the status page's poor UX—the confusing pod-based structure makes it unintelligible to non-Salesforce users, with one commenter calling it "the most Salesforce thing ever."

Speculation ranged from the mundane (DNS, interns tripping power cables) to pointed jabs at recent AI hype. Several comments wondered whether Claude or GPT automation integrations overwhelmed the system, with jokes about "ClaudeForce in action." Others sarcastically suggested this was the perfect time for startups to build Salesforce replacements, particularly criticizing how Salesforce has become the bloated monolith it originally replaced. The comment about OpenAI testing their agents got dark laughs. One user simply noted everyone could actually get work done during the outage.2a:T891,Jake Smith posted a retrospective on deprecating http_build_url, a PHP polyfill he wrote in 2014 to replace the PECL http_build_url() function during AOL's CMS migration from PHP 5.2 to 5.3. The 174-line stopgap was published to Packagist for community reuse and unexpectedly accumulated nearly 20 million installs with 400k monthly downloads. It shipped directly into WPML (1.5M+ WordPress sites), idna-convert, SPIP, Debian, and Ubuntu, making Smith's code pervasive despite his assumption it would be temporary.

After a decade away from PHP, Smith discovered the package still had active issues—most glaringly, a bug where trailing slashes on URL paths cause a find-and-replace workaround to strip every occurrence of the letter 'a' from the entire path. A hidden comment revealed the hack: padding with 'a' to create a segment to strip, but the regex removes all 'a's instead of just the padding. Smith decided against maintaining it, patching it himself, or handing it to three volunteer maintainers, citing security risks (xz Utils backdoor example) and the existence of better alternatives: PHP League's URI library and PHP 8.5's native standards-compliant URI API.

The package will remain installable but unfixed. Smith notes AOL's CMS never actually migrated off the polyfill; it ran there until the platform shut down around 2020.

Comments emphasize Sander Marechal's adage: "There is nothing as permanent as a temporary fix that works." HN users compared it to the left-pad incident, criticizing downstream codebases for taking hard dependencies on trivial functions. Several celebrated the run and the author's decision, with one noting the 'a'-stripping bug had "top-tier" comedy value. laruss5 suggested a final release with deprecation warnings pointing to migration paths, since old Stack Overflow answers will resurrect the package name. Staplung invoked Hyrum's Law: with 20M installs, someone is almost certainly relying on the 'a'-removal bug as a feature. One commenter worked with Smith at AOL and expressed warmth. Most sentiment recognized the difficulty of maintaining widely-used-but-ancient code and praised the decision to sunset rather than hand off or patch.2b:T79f,The article explains the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve's engineering solution: 60 salt caverns at four Gulf Coast sites (Texas/Louisiana) storing 714M barrels total. Starting with naive approaches—1,130 aboveground floating roof tanks would require DC-sized land area and are vulnerable to attack; underground concrete tanks like Pearl Harbor's Red Hill facility cost $820M equivalent in today's dollars, require massive excavation, and have groundwater contamination risks—the author describes how salt caverns work. Engineers drill into salt domes, inject fresh water to dissolve salt, pump out brine, and leave cylindrical caverns. The salt's low permeability contains oil without steel linings. Oil floats on water, so pumping fresh water in pushes oil up and out. Cost is roughly one-fifth that of tanks, and underground location provides attack protection. Located near refineries and marine terminals for rapid distribution.

Key comments identify real tradeoffs and technical issues beyond the article. One experienced commenter notes fresh water used for withdrawal dissolves more salt, gradually enlarging caverns and creating structural shear forces that degrade integrity—effectively loaning oil to refiners who don't want it while wasting operational life. The GAO report linked provides detailed status. Others point out salt caverns are only designed for infrequent maximum drawdowns, not repeated cycling. Questions arise about cavern monitoring (sonar is used; UNT library has pictures), why brine isn't reinjected to preserve capacity, and a mathematical error: 1,130 tanks at 300-foot diameter should need ~2,260 acres, not 45,000. Some note that 100-150M barrels must remain for operational pressure, so drawdown capacity is limited. Related storage mechanisms (natural gas) use identical salt-dome principles. Comments also reference similar explainers from Construction Physics and Peter Zeihan's video on historical uses.2c:T84a,Fujitsu's press release announced MONAKA, a next-generation CPU claiming "sovereign" Japanese manufacturing. Commenters quickly clarified that this is ARMv9-based architecture (not Japan-designed), contradicting the sovereignty framing. Key technical details: includes SVE2 vector operations and emphasizes AI inference alongside traditional HPC workloads.

Comments exposed several contradictions in Fujitsu's messaging. The CPU's actual origin is uncertain—while Fujitsu claims "made in Japan," manufacturing likely occurs at JASM (Japan Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing), a joint venture. More fundamentally, Fujitsu no longer owns fabs; their former semiconductor facilities were sold to UMC and remain stuck at 20nm nodes, so modern chip production depends on partners. The architecture itself is ARM-designed, not Japanese IP.

Market viability drew heavy skepticism. One commenter argued that Japan's efforts would be better spent on semiconductor supply chain infrastructure (fabs, materials) rather than building yet another ARM variant in a crowded CPU market. Others noted the overcrowded competitive landscape and Fujitsu's historical difficulty establishing enterprise relationships and software support outside Asia. Without clear differentiation, aggressive pricing, or ecosystem lock-in, market adoption looks unlikely.

The Post Office scandal surfaced repeatedly—Fujitsu's role in a massive UK miscarriage of justice, where faulty software caused innocent people to be imprisoned, severely damaged trust. Multiple commenters used this as reason for dismissal.

Some positivity emerged: one commenter praised Fujitsu's historically impressive power efficiency in workstations and servers, and another noted potential value for countries pursuing semiconductor independence. The chip's optional liquid cooling and CPU-centric (GPU-light) design was noted as environmentally conscious compared to GPU-heavy AI systems.

Overall sentiment: interesting technical effort undercut by poor execution risk, weak market positioning, murky sovereign manufacturing claims, and Fujitsu's reputational baggage.2d:T7ad,The linked blog post (page unavailable) apparently documented a reverse-engineering effort to recover the public cryptographic keys used to sign barcodes on US driver's licenses. The author analyzed ECDSA signatures from multiple state-issued IDs, apparently extracting usable public keys from the barcode data itself.

Comments add critical context: simoncion correctly notes that recovering a public key is fundamentally different from recovering a signing (private) key—the entire security model of public-key cryptography depends on public keys being widely known. The author's blog title may have been sensationalized compared to the actual claim. dmurray questions technical details, suggesting forgers likely reuse real signatures from other cards rather than cryptographic attacks, and notes that any real verification system would need to cross-check the barcode data against human-readable card details and possibly a database.

The comment thread diverges on implications. bob1029 frames this within Apple's mDL ecosystem announced at WWDC25, arguing that mobile driver's licenses with cryptographic chains of trust could eventually be superior to physical cards. However, KingMachiavelli argues that unless the photo itself is embedded and signed in the barcode, this is mostly academic—a leaked batch of real valid barcodes combined with arbitrary photos would defeat most current verification systems that don't perform proprietary photo lookups.

dmurray also published an interactive demo allowing readers to verify barcode signatures from California, New York, and Virginia. Technical discussions criticize the cryptographic implementation (EPWN3D dislikes that the crypto layer is aware of placeholder structures during signing). sneak raises privacy concerns about DMVs outsourcing card printing and bulk data sales. clarkevans offers better analogies for explaining asymmetric cryptography to non-technical audiences than the "key" metaphor.2e:Te48,A reader who built a sophisticated TypeScript/JavaScript system with LLM assistance without formal CS training faces a crisis: the product works but exceeds their understanding. They can't fix problems without AI assistance and worry they've created "sophisticated-enough-to-work" code they don't truly own. They ask whether it's still worth learning fundamentals if LLMs can build faster than humans understand.

Seemann, a 30-year veteran programmer and former economist, gives cautious answers grounded in skepticism about AI's job displacement claims. His core insight: humans have always worked atop abstractions they didn't fully understand (web developers ignoring compilers, etc.), but the rule of thumb was understanding the layers directly above and below your work. This fails with AI because developers can now build systems they're completely unaware of. He notes that reaching genuine competency takes decades—the Dunning-Kruger curve—and AI doesn't fundamentally speed human cognition, though it improves access to information. Learning still happened slowly for him through examples, trial-and-error, and books.

On AI and learning: Seemann "deeply distrusts" LLM answers because they bullshit rather than hallucinate. He asks LLMs only falsifiable questions (refactor this code?) not speculative ones (what should I learn?). He worries about mass unemployment among knowledge workers if AI becomes truly capable—30-40% unemployment in a knowledge-based economy, citing his economics background. The WTO/China precedent cuts both ways: new jobs emerged, but not for displaced workers.

The comment section reveals productive disagreement. The author of *Python Crash Course* confirms getting identical emails and agrees AI enables faster building than understanding—you need discipline to intentionally learn as you build. A compelling counter-argument: programming is formal logic notation, and natural language is inherently worse for maintenance; we'll always need programmers who read formal descriptions, not prompters. Another commenter notes software engineering is about managing complexity through abstraction, a skill LLMs don't teach.

Several experienced developers report real consequences: one company's product became completely dependent on Claude's availability; when it went down, nobody could work because they never read the code. A junior developer's advice: juniors can't become experts while trapped in the LLM-assistance loop; for AI to truly matter, software engineering itself would have to become irrelevant (choosing databases, languages, architecture wouldn't matter). One teacher is having their kids build projects without AI assistance specifically to maintain understanding.

Dissenters offer optimistic counterpoints: unemployment statistics don't support China/WTO doom scenarios (US unemployment fell after WTO entry). Some developers report intentionally using AI to explore unfamiliar tech while keeping old reliable tools, finding they explore more territory but with less depth. A few acknowledge that for motivated learners, AI can serve as an on-demand curriculum paired with real projects—you hit bugs, debug with AI, and learn why things fail.

The prevailing theme: AI has created a genuine problem for new programmers. You can now build impressive systems without understanding them. But experienced developers mostly agree understanding still matters, either for maintenance, debugging in production (where cloud-based AI fails), or owning your product. The honest verdict from multiple commenters: we don't know yet, but the naive use of AI without foundations is clearly dangerous.2f:T8aa,Canadian PM Mark Carney addressed the European Parliament to welcome EU Commission President von der Leyen's proposal for Canada to become the EU's first "associate member"—a status that doesn't currently exist. Carney framed the alliance as mutual strength-building amid "geopolitical rupture," climate change, and weaponized trade, proposing deeper cooperation on critical minerals, LNG/hydrogen exports, technology, research, and people-to-people ties including potential Erasmus+ programme participation. He stressed Canada wasn't seeking full EU membership but a "unique framework" and emphasized Canadian autonomy.

Trump immediately called the idea "laughable" and threatened "very serious tariffs" or trade suspension on Europe if he judged it hostile. Carney responded diplomatically that this was a "positive process" and reasserted Canadian independence from external diktat.

The proposal requires unanimous EU member state agreement and remains vague on implementation. The existing CETA trade deal hasn't even been fully ratified by all members, with some governments having previously resisted new membership categories.

HN comments raised several substantive concerns: The mechanicss of diplomatic choreography—whether Carney coordinated this announcement beforehand to avoid embarrassment. Questions about practical consequences: will European banks operate in Canada, will Canadian dairy face quotas, does Canada certify Airbus? Legal oddities about geographic EU membership requirements. Alberta's October 19 secession referendum complicates Canada's unified position. The proposal's vagueness: commenters note nobody understands what "associate member" actually means. Some saw this as political theater to manage Ukraine war burden-sharing or divert from Trump's Epstein litigation. Critics questioned whether the announcement was choreographed to avoid the messy ratification process that stalled CETA. One EU citizen dismissed it as marketing bluster comparable to failed initiatives like Gaia-X, unlikely to materialize meaningfully. Skeptics noted von der Leyen may not have secured member state buy-in beforehand. Others welcomed the alliance-building as necessary in a multipolar world.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-09-17 16:25 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-09-17 16:25 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":1}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://typesafe.ai/blog/introducing-system-one-models-and-jev","id":49717558,"rank":1,"title":"Introducing System One Models and Jev","url":"https://typesafe.ai/blog/introducing-system-one-models-and-jev","domain":"typesafe.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49717558","by":"albelfio","score":1841,"commentCount":485,"time":1789500303000,"short":"TypeSafe AI launched Jev, a \"System One Model\" optimized for fast structured decision-making rather than text generation. It claims 40-200x faster inference (70-500ms vs 3-329s) and much cheaper output tokens, with guaranteed type-safe outputs and calibrated confidence scores. Comments debate whether this is genuinely novel versus a structured-output wrapper around existing techniques, note the speed comparisons are somewhat apples-to-oranges, and praise its potential for classification and…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T00:56:16.133Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/introducing-cuda-rust-two-tracks-for-writing-gpu-kernels","id":49724881,"rank":2,"title":"Nvidia announces native GPU programming in Rust","url":"https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/introducing-cuda-rust-two-tracks-for-writing-gpu-kernels/","domain":"developer.nvidia.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724881","by":"nonmaskable","score":880,"commentCount":346,"time":1789557353000,"short":"NVIDIA announced two tracks for writing GPU kernels in Rust: cuda-oxide (SIMT-style, custom rustc backend compiling to PTX, nightly-only) and cutile-rs (tile-based, JIT-compiled, stable Rust). Both enforce memory safety at compile time and prevent common race conditions. cutile-rs is published and already used by HuggingFace and mistral.rs; cuda-oxide is early alpha. Comments criticize the blog for sounding AI-written and raise concerns about nightly toolchain requirements, vendor lock-in, and…","long":"$13","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:21.306Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bbc.com/news/articles/cjwyzrr9d3dko","id":49724141,"rank":3,"title":"EU chief opens door for Canada to become 'associate member'","url":"https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cjwyzrr9d3dko","domain":"bbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724141","by":"hackernj","score":676,"commentCount":869,"time":1789552445000,"short":"EU Commission President von der Leyen backed making Canada the EU's first \"associate member,\" citing shared democratic values and cooperation needs on AI, defense, and supply chains amid tensions with Trump's US. Commenters note this is partly strategic posturing by Canadian PM Carney in his trade dispute with the US, while also highlighting that \"associate membership\" isn't new (Article 217 TFEU already covers such arrangements) and warning the EU struggles with novel agreements due to…","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:23.783Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.archive.org/2026/09/15/an-update-on-wayback-machine-access","id":49716176,"rank":4,"title":"An update on Wayback Machine access","url":"https://blog.archive.org/2026/09/15/an-update-on-wayback-machine-access/","domain":"blog.archive.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49716176","by":"ChrisArchitect","score":672,"commentCount":354,"time":1789494738000,"short":"Internet Archive announces the Wayback Machine is experiencing high-volume automated traffic, forcing rate-limiting (429 errors) that sometimes blocks legitimate users. They acknowledge overblocking issues and ask users to report false positives via email. Comments reveal frustration over false positives and blame AI scraping, with suggestions for paid access tiers, better bot authentication standards, and requiring logins.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T00:56:13.267Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://rohanbansal.com/qorl","id":49731285,"rank":5,"title":"Training a 4B model to produce 81% faster query plans than Postgres","url":"https://rohanbansal.com/qorl","domain":"rohanbansal.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49731285","by":"polyphilz","score":651,"commentCount":131,"time":1789584600000,"short":"Training a 4B Qwen model via supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning to produce Postgres query plans 44.7% faster on join-heavy IMDb queries. Comments highlight substantial caveats: small in-memory 8GB dataset with no real statistics/indexes, unrealistic OLTP patterns, high training costs (~$1200), and missing planning overhead in benchmarks. Fundamental concern that LLMs can hallucinate bad plans non-deterministically, and real databases need fast online planning that adapts to live…","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:32.182Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://will-keleher.com/posts/small-programming-tricks-matter","id":49729000,"rank":6,"title":"Small programming tricks","url":"https://will-keleher.com/posts/small-programming-tricks-matter/","domain":"will-keleher.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49729000","by":"signa11","score":614,"commentCount":268,"time":1789574207000,"short":"Post advocates that small, high-leverage knowledge nuggets—like CLI tricks (fzf, git pickaxe, ripgrep, git log -S), SQL features (SELECT without FROM, EXPLAIN ANALYZE), and shell tricks—compound into significant productivity gains. Comments debate whether these are genuinely \"programming\" tricks (many are CLI/DevOps focused), discuss adoption barriers (people stay with inefficient methods until actively reminded), and share personal variations like keeping ~/scratch.txt, using zoxide, or…","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:32.463Z","age":"24 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-x-mozilla","id":49723408,"rank":7,"title":"Mistral X Mozilla: Private, Multilingual AI Browsing","url":"https://mistral.ai/news/mistral-x-mozilla/","domain":"mistral.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49723408","by":"vertigoruntime","score":577,"commentCount":196,"time":1789546137000,"short":"Mistral and Mozilla announced Firefox Smart Window, an AI browsing assistant powered by Mistral models in France/North America (UK/Germany later), emphasizing open-source, privacy, and multilingual support. Comments heavily criticize the \"private\" framing: the feature actually sends browsing data to cloud servers, contradicting privacy claims. Debates center on local vs. cloud inference, with many calling the marketing misleading and preferring Chrome's local Gemini Nano model.","long":"$18","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:22.578Z","age":"32 hours ago"},{"key":"https://wired.com/story/hackers-flock-camera-data-shows-how-system-works","id":49726586,"rank":8,"title":"Hackers Got Inside a Flock Camera","url":"https://www.wired.com/story/hackers-flock-camera-data-shows-how-system-works/","domain":"wired.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49726586","by":"driverdan","score":553,"commentCount":249,"time":1789564727000,"short":"Hackers physically removed a Flock Safety automatic license plate reader camera and dumped its firmware and encrypted data. Analysis revealed the device photographed 1.6M images of 50K vehicles in 21 days, explicitly detects people despite denials, and stores encryption keys on-device unprotected. Comments criticize Flock's lazy security architecture, hardcoded credentials, weak vulnerability disclosure policy, and argue all ALPR vendors share these flaws.","long":"$19","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:33.970Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://security.apple.com/blog/apple-reference-image","id":49721322,"rank":9,"title":"Apple Reference Image: A New Approach for Verified Photography","url":"https://security.apple.com/blog/apple-reference-image/","domain":"security.apple.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49721322","by":"imwally","score":518,"commentCount":346,"time":1789524451000,"short":"Apple's Reference Image system creates cryptographically verified photographs on iPhone 18 Pro/Max by signing pixel data directly at the sensor level, uploading the secure digital negative to Private Cloud Compute for processing, and applying post-quantum signatures. The system uses timestamps bounding capture time and hardware-attested sensor identities to resist tampering. Comments focused on practical defeat scenarios: photographing high-resolution displays showing fake images, the problem…","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:30.478Z","age":"38 hours ago"},{"key":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/rl","id":49732270,"rank":10,"title":"Xiaomi Mimo 2.6 live post-training dashboard","url":"https://mimo.xiaomi.com/rl/","domain":"mimo.xiaomi.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732270","by":"krackers","score":517,"commentCount":147,"time":1789589358000,"short":"Xiaomi's Mimo 2.6 model is currently training live with a public dashboard showing real-time metrics: 2/3 of training data is source code, cumulative cost is $1.2M, and it's on track to spend ~$432K daily. Comments praise the transparency—rare for frontier models—and note Mimo 2.5-Pro scores 19% on DeepSWE (vs competitors at 69-74%), while real users report it delivers GPT-4-class quality at 10x better ROI than Anthropic models.","long":"$1b","gem":true,"gemReason":"Live training dashboard with real-time metrics, cost tracking, and benchmark scores…","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:21.479Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://wsj.com/world/middle-east/aws-says-it-cant-restore-some-data-from-mideast-facilities-struck-by-iran-ddcb7e5d","id":49719249,"rank":11,"title":"AWS says it can't restore some data from mideast facilities struck by Iran","url":"https://www.wsj.com/world/middle-east/aws-says-it-cant-restore-some-data-from-mideast-facilities-struck-by-iran-ddcb7e5d","domain":"wsj.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49719249","by":"berkeleyjunk","score":501,"commentCount":422,"time":1789508502000,"short":"AWS acknowledged it cannot fully restore data from Middle East facilities destroyed in Iran missile strikes. The incident exposed gaps in redundancy assumptions: despite multi-AZ promises, data loss occurred because all copies may have been in the strike zone. Comments highlight AWS's data residency constraints, force majeure clauses, and fundamental questions about whether geo-distributed backups were properly implemented given regulatory requirements.","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:19.423Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/gemini-models/gemini-3-8-live-gemini-3-8-live-extended-thinking","id":49715947,"rank":12,"title":"Gemini 3.8 Live and 3.8 Live Extended Thinking","url":"https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/gemini-models/gemini-3-8-live-gemini-3-8-live-extended-thinking/","domain":"blog.google","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49715947","by":"leumon","score":485,"commentCount":325,"time":1789493898000,"short":"Google launched Gemini 3.8 Live and 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, voice models optimized for real-time conversation handling complex reasoning while speaking. 3.8 Live balances cost and capability; Extended Thinking adds deeper multi-step reasoning. Both support 97 languages, background tool execution, and visual grounding. Available via Gemini API, Google Workspace, and Search. Comments praise fluid conversation and language support but note uneven rollout, hallucination issues in agentic…","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T00:56:24.656Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://dank.systems/posts/2026-09-15-ai-bear.html","id":49715927,"rank":13,"title":"Why I'm still bearish on LLMs after Navier-Stokes","url":"https://dank.systems/posts/2026-09-15-ai-bear.html","domain":"dank.systems","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49715927","by":"jaykru","score":480,"commentCount":634,"time":1789493832000,"short":"Author argues frontier LLM companies are overvalued despite Navier-Stokes-level successes because most real-world tasks lack rigorous specifications. LLMs work well only in narrow domains—they need heavy human oversight, fail on slight task variations, and are vulnerable to reward hacking. Autonomy is possible only for failure-cheap work (interns/prototyping), narrowly defined tasks (call centers), or domains requiring expensive specification/validation (chip design). Comments dispute whether…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:31.098Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://codyho.dev/blog/gpu-driver","id":49717638,"rank":14,"title":"Building a Linux GPU Driver for the M4 Mac Mini in One Month","url":"https://codyho.dev/blog/gpu-driver/","domain":"codyho.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49717638","by":"ADevWithAnIdea","score":415,"commentCount":278,"time":1789500603000,"short":"Cody Ho built a fully OpenGL ES 3.0 GPU driver for M4 Mac Mini and MacBook Neo in one month using Claude and Codex, reverse engineering the AGX firmware ABI from hypervisor traces and hardware. Comments reveal significant controversy: Ho was banned from Asahi Linux for hiding LLM use and concealing his former Apple engineer status; critics worry about legal taint given Apple's OpenAI lawsuit; Asahi has a strict no-AI policy blocking upstream inclusion; but supporters argue the work is…","long":"$1f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T08:30:49.136Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gultsch.social/@daniel/117280438824908947","id":49724927,"rank":15,"title":"The Google Play app review process now regularly takes longer than a week","url":"https://gultsch.social/@daniel/117280438824908947","domain":"gultsch.social","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724927","by":"inputmice","score":360,"commentCount":344,"time":1789557551000,"short":"Google Play app review times have become inconsistent and regularly exceed a week, disrupting developer workflows and critical bug fixes. Comments reveal Apple has similar delays despite advertising 24-hour turnarounds. Root causes debated: increased LLM-generated submissions creating bottlenecks, special review queues for features like Android Auto, and automated+manual review hybrid systems. Trusted/older apps sometimes clear in hours; new apps face stricter scrutiny. Developers cite this as…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:32.973Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://strix.ai/blog/baseten-harbor-github-pat-takeover","id":49716476,"rank":16,"title":"We got admin access to Baseten's production GitHub","url":"https://www.strix.ai/blog/baseten-harbor-github-pat-takeover","domain":"strix.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49716476","by":"bearsyankees","score":322,"commentCount":185,"time":1789495884000,"short":"Strix security company's autonomous hacking agent discovered an active GitHub personal access token with admin access to Baseten's production repos inside a publicly downloadable Docker image from March 2023. The token was exposed via Docker build history containing the raw GITHUB_TOKEN environment variable. Baseten patched within hours, logs show no exploitation. Comments debate legality of running unauthorized pentests against third parties, token sprawl in container images, and whether this…","long":"$21","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T08:30:46.794Z","age":"46 hours ago"},{"key":"https://frvr.com/blog/news/ps5-linux-lead-quits-as-open-source-projects-have-become-a-bunch-of-noobs-using-llms-that-they-dont-even-understand","id":49727627,"rank":17,"title":"PS5 Linux lead quits: \"a bunch of noobs using LLMs\" that \"they don't understand\"","url":"https://frvr.com/blog/news/ps5-linux-lead-quits-as-open-source-projects-have-become-a-bunch-of-noobs-using-llms-that-they-dont-even-understand/","domain":"frvr.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49727627","by":"alexjplant","score":320,"commentCount":220,"time":1789569036000,"short":"TheFlow0, the PS5 Linux project lead, quit over AI-generated \"vibe code\" flooding open-source—but the real catalyst was someone using an LLM to find a secret hypervisor exploit TheFlow0 had withheld until GTA 6 released, then reporting it to Sony for bounty despite promising to wait. Comments reveal the headline oversimplifies: the core issue isn't AI itself but broken community trust, changing incentives (bounties vs. shared vision), and maintainer burnout from low-quality contributions and…","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:33.215Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://lawfaremedia.org/article/america%27s-drivers-licence-breach-is-a-national-security-disaster","id":49714547,"rank":18,"title":"America's Driver's License Breach Is a National Security Disaster","url":"https://www.lawfaremedia.org/article/america%27s-drivers-licence-breach-is-a-national-security-disaster","domain":"lawfaremedia.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49714547","by":"hn_acker","score":320,"commentCount":201,"time":1789487928000,"short":"Nexus dark web service is selling 153 million U.S. driver's licenses and 3 million travel documents stolen from identity verification company IDScan, likely exfiltrated continuously over a year. The breach—covering 63% of all U.S. licenses and targeting high-ranking officials—enables adversaries like China to map intelligence operations via linked identity records, as demonstrated by past breaches (Anthem, Equifax, OPM) exploited for counter-intelligence. HN comments emphasize existing…","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T00:56:33.354Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://filipovski.net/2026/09/16/backups-arent-simple.html","id":49732513,"rank":19,"title":"Backups Aren't Simple","url":"https://filipovski.net/2026/09/16/backups-arent-simple.html","domain":"filipovski.net","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49732513","by":"afilipovski","score":317,"commentCount":189,"time":1789590436000,"short":"Backups seem straightforward—keep copies of your data elsewhere—but reality forces increasingly complex decisions: RPO targets, retention schedules, deduplication, encryption, 3-2-1 redundancy across media types, database consistency, and offsite storage. The author traces escalating requirements using incremental snapshot tools like rsnapshot, then recommends delegating to proven solutions like Borg or Restic. HN commenters reinforced the message with personal data loss stories and confirmed…","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:54.041Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"hn:49738879","id":49738879,"rank":20,"title":"Neovim have a ~$800k Bitcoin donation sitting untouched since 2023","url":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738879","domain":null,"isTextPost":true,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49738879","by":"jakemanger","score":284,"commentCount":224,"time":1789641889000,"short":"Neovim has an inactive Bitcoin wallet with approximately 10 BTC (~$800k at current prices) donated in 2023, with no outgoing transactions since 2019. Community questions whether project maintainers still have access to the private keys and suggest the wallet may be abandoned; comments note the current donation method is OpenCollective, and debate whether large unrealized gains could trigger tax obligations.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:45.465Z","age":"6 hours ago"},{"key":"https://tomshardware.com/video-games/playstation/26-year-old-sony-ps2-security-chip-broken-wide-open-after-four-years-of-effort-reverse-engineering-enthusiast-successfully-unlocks-cxp102064-mechacon-chip","id":49725356,"rank":21,"title":"Original Sony PlayStation 2 security chip 'broken wide open' after 26 years","url":"https://www.tomshardware.com/video-games/playstation/26-year-old-sony-ps2-security-chip-broken-wide-open-after-four-years-of-effort-reverse-engineering-enthusiast-successfully-unlocks-cxp102064-mechacon-chip","domain":"tomshardware.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49725356","by":"rbanffy","score":280,"commentCount":84,"time":1789559380000,"short":"Canadian reverse engineer DiscoStarslayer has successfully dumped the PS2's MechaCon security chip after four years of effort using chemical decapping and optical imaging, plus a discovered software exploit. The breakthrough aids hardware preservation, emulation, and repair but doesn't directly enable piracy—backups have been playable for years via other exploits, though this enables better low-level emulation, modchip creation, and future vulnerability research for unlocking PS1 mode.","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T08:31:28.747Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://rheinmetall.github.io/onboardapi-documentation/9.10.0/index.html","id":49718928,"rank":22,"title":"German Rheinmetall open-sources its Battlesuite connected weapon system protcol","url":"https://rheinmetall.github.io/onboardapi-documentation/9.10.0/index.html","domain":"rheinmetall.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49718928","by":"summarity","score":279,"commentCount":108,"time":1789506467000,"short":"Rheinmetall published documentation for onboardapi, a DDS-based middleware for sensor/weapon system integration in their Battlesuite. Comments question why they'd open-source weapon protocols, note it's only documentation not code, debate whether DDS is the right choice for real-time embedded systems, and make dark jokes about armed weapon APIs.","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-16T16:24:31.313Z","age":"43 hours ago"},{"key":"https://servo.org/blog/2026/09/15/one-year-of-sponsorship","id":49737849,"rank":23,"title":"One Year of Sponsored Servo Development","url":"https://servo.org/blog/2026/09/15/one-year-of-sponsorship/","domain":"servo.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49737849","by":"AshleysBrain","score":275,"commentCount":120,"time":1789632834000,"short":"Servo's Josh Bowman-Matthews completed a year of donation-funded work on contributor experience, reviewing 1150 PRs, nominating 8 new maintainers, and creating documentation. HN comments questioned Servo's practical use case, noted SpiderMonkey remains non-Rust, and praised alternatives to Ladybird while some suggested corporate partnerships could accelerate progress.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:44.733Z","age":"8 hours ago"},{"key":"https://status.salesforce.com/products/all","id":49724488,"rank":24,"title":"Salesforce Global Outage","url":"https://status.salesforce.com/products/all","domain":"status.salesforce.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49724488","by":"mabil","score":274,"commentCount":181,"time":1789555028000,"short":"Salesforce experienced a major unplanned outage affecting their global platform. Root cause was a legacy login service that entered resource-exhaustion cascade; a fix rolled out gradually across the fleet. Timing was particularly bad during Dreamforce conference (Sept 15-17). Comments note the irony of the outage, critique the confusing status page UX, and speculate whether AI automation caused the incident.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T00:56:38.943Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://jakeasmith.com/blog/http-build-url","id":49718773,"rank":25,"title":"My temporary PHP fix from 2014 has nearly 20M installs. Today I'm deprecating it","url":"https://jakeasmith.com/blog/http-build-url/","domain":"jakeasmith.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49718773","by":"jakeasmith","score":266,"commentCount":68,"time":1789505616000,"short":"Jake Smith deprecated http_build_url, a 174-line PHP polyfill from 2014 with nearly 20M installs and 400k monthly downloads. Written as a temporary CMS fix, it shipped in WPML, Ubuntu, Debian, and countless sites. A decade-old bug strips 'a' characters from URLs; rather than maintain it, Smith points users toward PHP League's URI library and PHP 8.5's native standards-compliant URI API. HN notes the permanence of temporary fixes and compares it to left-pad's dependency excess.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:49.105Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://johnjwang.com/post/2026/09/15/engineering-behind-us-strategic-petroleum-reserve","id":49719596,"rank":26,"title":"The engineering behind the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve","url":"https://johnjwang.com/post/2026/09/15/engineering-behind-us-strategic-petroleum-reserve","domain":"johnjwang.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49719596","by":"johnjwang","score":258,"commentCount":103,"time":1789510525000,"short":"US Strategic Petroleum Reserve uses salt caverns in Gulf Coast domes, excavated by dissolving salt with water and extracting brine. Each holds ~10M barrels at $3.50/barrel vs $15-18 for tanks. Elegant but has tradeoffs: fresh water dissolves salt (expanding caverns), limits cycling, and requires monitoring. Comments highlight infrastructure aging, math errors in the post, and open questions about cavern shape tracking and repeated drawdowns.","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:54.117Z","age":"42 hours ago"},{"key":"https://global.fujitsu/en-global/pr/news/2026/09/14-02","id":49715813,"rank":27,"title":"Fujitsu launches made-in-Japan next-generation CPU FUJITSU-MONAKA","url":"https://global.fujitsu/en-global/pr/news/2026/09/14-02","domain":"global.fujitsu","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49715813","by":"my123","score":256,"commentCount":97,"time":1789493318000,"short":"Fujitsu announced MONAKA, a \"made-in-Japan\" ARMv9 CPU with SVE2 vector ops targeting AI inference and HPC. The linked page was unavailable, but HN consensus focused on skepticism: it's ARM-based (not Japanese-designed), likely fab'd at JASM rather than truly domestic, and faces crowded market competition with unclear software support and enterprise sales strategy outside Japan.","long":"$2c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:53.620Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://ryan.science/blog/keys-not-included","id":49735930,"rank":28,"title":"Keys Not Included: recovering the signing keys for US driver's license barcodes","url":"https://ryan.science/blog/keys-not-included","domain":"ryan.science","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49735930","by":"Ryan5453","score":252,"commentCount":121,"time":1789614203000,"short":"Author reverse-engineered US driver's license barcode signing by analyzing ECDSA signatures across multiple states and recovered the public keys. Comments highlight that recovering public keys isn't inherently problematic (they're meant to be public), dispute exact details of the attack, and debate implications for mDL adoption, ID verification workflows, and cryptographic security practices.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:24:56.526Z","age":"13 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.ploeh.dk/2026/09/16/on-learning-programming-in-an-age-of-llms","id":49723873,"rank":29,"title":"Learning Programming in an Age of LLMs","url":"https://blog.ploeh.dk/2026/09/16/on-learning-programming-in-an-age-of-llms/","domain":"blog.ploeh.dk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49723873","by":"moneroloop2018","score":250,"commentCount":187,"time":1789549954000,"short":"Mark Seemann responds to a reader who built a complex production system with LLMs but now struggles to understand or maintain it. Seemann argues that while AI can speed up development, it can't speed up human learning fundamentally—the brain remains the bottleneck. He recommends learning by understanding abstraction layers below your work level, using LLMs only for verifiable questions, and questions whether coding careers remain viable long-term given potential AI displacement. Comments…","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:25:07.582Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://bbc.com/news/articles/cwly7vkke4jxo","id":49740507,"rank":30,"title":"Canada welcomes EU proposal to become 'associate member'","url":"https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cwly7vkke4jxo","domain":"bbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=49740507","by":"witweb","score":240,"commentCount":285,"time":1789651837000,"short":"Canadian PM Carney welcomed EU's proposal for Canada to become its first \"associate member\", offering closer cooperation on defence, critical minerals, and energy. The undefined new status sparked Trump's threat of \"very serious tariffs\" on Europe if he deems it hostile, amid ongoing US-Canada trade tensions. Comments debate feasibility, the theatrical nature of announcements, and whether this represents genuine alliance-building or geopolitical theater.","long":"$2f","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-09-17T16:25:03.225Z","age":"3 hours ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-17T08-31Z/","children":["← ","2026-09-17 08:31 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-09-18T00-56Z/","children":["2026-09-18 00:56 UTC"," →"]}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-09-17 16:25 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
