1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[9766,[],""]
3:I[8924,[],""]
5:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
7:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
9:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
b:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
c:"$Sreact.suspense"
e:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","style"]
0:{"P":null,"b":"QdaHvm6OKKcEzZKlMvX8a","p":"","c":["","archive","2026-10-10T16-24Z",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["archive",{"children":[["run","2026-10-10T16-24Z","d"],{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/4b973e7f8e70790d.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"light","suppressHydrationWarning":true,"children":[["$","head",null,{"children":["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"\n(function () {\n  try {\n    var saved = localStorage.getItem('hns-theme');\n    var theme = saved === 'light' || saved === 'dark'\n      ? saved\n      : (window.matchMedia('(prefers-color-scheme: dark)').matches ? 'dark' : 'light');\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', theme);\n  } catch (e) {\n    document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme', 'light');\n  }\n})();\n"}}]}],["$","body",null,{"children":["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","title",null,{"children":"404: This page could not be found."}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"fontFamily":"system-ui,\"Segoe UI\",Roboto,Helvetica,Arial,sans-serif,\"Apple Color Emoji\",\"Segoe UI Emoji\"","height":"100vh","textAlign":"center","display":"flex","flexDirection":"column","alignItems":"center","justifyContent":"center"},"children":["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","style",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"body{color:#000;background:#fff;margin:0}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(0,0,0,.3)}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{color:#fff;background:#000}.next-error-h1{border-right:1px solid rgba(255,255,255,.3)}}"}}],["$","h1",null,{"className":"next-error-h1","style":{"display":"inline-block","margin":"0 20px 0 0","padding":"0 23px 0 0","fontSize":24,"fontWeight":500,"verticalAlign":"top","lineHeight":"49px"},"children":404}],["$","div",null,{"style":{"display":"inline-block"},"children":["$","h2",null,{"style":{"fontSize":14,"fontWeight":400,"lineHeight":"49px","margin":0},"children":"This page could not be found."}]}]]}]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}]]}]]}],{"children":["archive",["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["run","2026-10-10T16-24Z","d"],["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":["$L4",null,["$","$L5",null,{"children":["$L6",["$","$L7",null,{"promise":"$@8"}]]}]]}],{},null,false]},null,false]},null,false]},null,false],["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L9",null,{"children":"$La"}],null],["$","$Lb",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$c",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$Ld"}]}]}]]}],false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$e",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
f:I[4991,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
10:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],""]
11:I[4017,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","813","static/chunks/app/archive/%5Brun%5D/page-ff18c8df511c90f8.js"],"default"]
12:T8c1,Ryan Dahl announces Deno is joining Cloudflare. The entire Deno team will shift focus to celld, a distributed application framework built on Cloudflare Workers and Durable Objects. Concrete changes: Deno runtime receives bug fixes and security updates for one year, then development stops (open source continues if others maintain it). Deno Deploy operating for six months before shutdown, with migration support to Cloudflare Workers. JSR package registry continues at Cloudflare. Rusty_v8 integration with workerd continues. Dahl frames the move as natural progression from questioning how to build server software, through Deno and Deno Deploy, to celld's simplified distributed model with scaling built into the programming model rather than ad-hoc infrastructure.

HN comments reveal substantial disappointment. Commenters view this as an "acquihire" killing Deno. Multiple note this validates staying with Node.js: despite io.js, Bun, and Deno challenges, mainstream wins through network effects. One commenter observed this happening when Deno added npm compatibility—the original vision of building Node from first principles got diluted. Another bitterly notes Dahl pushed Deno hard for years only to abandon it within a year of joining Cloudflare. Some sympathize with the business reality of VC constraints limiting runway for alternatives.

Positive notes: Deno influenced Node to improve, the permission/security model was innovative, and early Deno's simplicity (direct imports from registries without package.json) was genuinely appealing. One user valued Deno's permission system for sandboxing agent execution. A commenter interested in self-hosted infrastructure appreciated celld's approach using S3-compatible storage for durability and coordination.

The broader pattern frustrates many: "Choose boring technology" keeps proving correct. Bun had similar issues. Commenters split between relief at Node's stability versus regret that innovation dies at the altar of incumbent network effects. Some question why Cloudflare bought the runtime rather than just the team, though others see celld's simpler model as superior to maintaining a separate runtime. A few switched to Rust/Go or left JavaScript entirely over this.13:T72e,The project is a fully-realized mockery of contemporary AAA game design philosophies wrapped around the simplest possible game mechanic. It presents Minesweeper with a bloated production: multiple publisher logos, corporate splash screens, dramatic musical scores, cryptic dialogue hinting at a Tokyo-Singapore plot, voice acting, and a lengthy credits sequence that viewers actually watch because the joke is so well-executed. The core gameplay remains untouched Minesweeper, but hitting mines causes no failure state—you proceed through the experience regardless, amplifying the critique of modern narrative-heavy games where player agency becomes illusory.

Comment section consensus treats this as genuine satire that lands perfectly on its target. The humor resonates because it accurately reflects real frustrations: games prioritizing "experience" over fun, mandatory tutorials despite obvious mechanics, cinematics disguised as gameplay, and the contrast between proclaimed urgency ("no time to waste") and forced delays. Multiple commenters noted the irony of skippable logos in a game that's itself criticizing such padding, and the fake narrative thread (what happened in Singapore?) became an inside joke itself—several people expressed genuine interest in a sequel revealing the story.

Technical observations: the voices may be AI-generated, some felt caption placement was distracting, and one commenter noted the comparison to recent unfailable game sequences (the Wolverine game's driving section was likely the reference). A few suggested additions in jest: DLC for rounded corners, checkpoints between mines, visual guides to targets. The project earned genuine appreciation as art commentary, with viewers staying through the entire experience despite—or because of—its meta-criticism of exactly that behavior.14:T78e,The site "I'm in a Meeting" provides audio simulations of various office meeting types—standup calls, API design reviews, etc. in different accents/regions—to give cover for focus time or avoiding interruptions. The page itself is unavailable, but the concept is evident from context.

Commenters describe real utility. One SRE manager described creating a protected Friday block for his team; people report actually using similar fake-meeting videos on YouTube (millions of views) to get family to leave them alone or to claim they're busy. The dialogues are written to sound authentically corporate and slightly absurd ("happy is a strong word").

Technical issues: many users report broken audio (404 errors on media files), particularly non-British variants. Some audio works only partially. This appears to be load issues from HN traffic.

Notable disagreement exists on utility. Some find it genuinely relaxing background noise (described as "big corp ASMR"), while others say human voices are too cognitively intrusive when you can pick out individual words. One commenter found an API Design Review so stressful he couldn't concentrate nearby.

Deeper critique: several commenters flag that needing fake meetings to get focus time indicates workplace dysfunction. One asked bluntly: "if you can't tell people you want to concentrate on your work, there's something very wrong with where you work or you." Others noted the site is already appearing on corporate blocklists, suggesting IT security flagged it.

A few compared it to "boss key" games from DOS era, or noted it parallels HackerTyper as novelty-software. One commenter questioned why audio-only would be realistic (people on calls usually use video), and another wanted more overlapping voices for authenticity. The creator acknowledged disabling AdSense for better UX but noted ads are "sneaking in" to meetings, which drew skepticism about covert advertising.15:T9c8,Whistle is a compact speech recognition model released by Cactus Compute that transcribes 30-second audio clips in English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, and Polish. The 16.9 MB model runs entirely on CPU with no external dependencies, loads into the same quantized C++ engine as their Needle 3 LLM, and outputs transcriptions, per-word timestamps, and speech embeddings.

The architecture shares encoder blocks with Needle (eight Simple Attention layers with Monarch Hadamard MLPs) and uses a gated cross-attention decoder to fuse audio context. The model supports five-beam decoding with keyword biasing via Aho-Corasick automata, variable depth selection (2-8 decoder layers), and language detection plus forced-language modes. On benchmarks against Whisper base (145.3 MB) and Moonshine tiny v2 (41.9 MB), Whistle wins on LibriSpeech test-clean/other, SPGISpeech, and Earnings-22 while running 5x faster to first token (11.1 ms vs 73.2 ms) and achieving 1,319 tokens/sec decode throughput.

The deployment story is strong: prebuilt binaries for 17 platforms including ARM, RISC-V, WASI, Android, iOS, and browser; single-command pip install with optional mic capture support; and unified API that combines Whistle + Needle for voice-controlled automation (e.g., turning off lights via spoken command).

Comment consensus praised the achievement but highlighted gaps. Strengths: accuracy with accented speech, integration with home automation (one user retrofitted an Echo Show), real-world accuracy improvements via template matching, cross-platform support including RISC-V builds, and integration with LLMs for voice control. Weaknesses: no streaming output until recording stops (noted as essential for live apps); limited to seven languages (leaving non-English markets underserved); occasional hallucinations like repeating "Thank you" for long stretches of audio; weaker performance than Qwen STT on some user tests, though Whistle can be fine-tuned; struggles with uncommon terminology without domain adaptation.

Expert context: users compared favorably to Parakeet, noted the STT accuracy plateau means marginal gains ahead, and several mentioned Qwen's leaderboard performance. One user with a Croatian father appreciated accessible STT but noted every mouth sound gets transcribed. The core disagreement was whether size/speed matter more than accuracy for practical applications—consensus: both matter, accuracy especially for non-English speakers and technical vocabularies.16:Ta5d,Oxide Computer announced a $445M Series D, notably framed around achieving profitability. Unlike typical startups that raise to reach product/market fit, Oxide paid income tax in spring 2026 from ordinary operations selling computers. The unusual capital structure stems from hardware economics: they need massive cash upfront for component inventory and manufacturing before fulfilling customer orders, with demand significantly exceeding supply. Leadership notes this is the opposite of typical startup risk (needing cash long before revenue) but still requires capital to avoid constraining growth.

The round was led by Eclipse (long-time backer) with participation from existing investors USIT, Riot Ventures, Jane Street, Friends and Family Capital, and Counterpart. AMD joined as a strategic investor, building on their historical support for Oxide's platform enablement work and Oxide's early bet on AMD EPYC. Atreides Management, a new investor, joined after nearly two years of relationship building.

The Hacker News discussion revealed strong technical respect but highlighted market concerns. Commenters praised Oxide's communication style, podcast (On the Metal/Oxide and Friends), and engineering culture as exemplary. Praise focused on their principled approach, particularly around sovereign compute and independence from hyperscalers increasingly commodifying and degrading services. One commenter noted the case for decentralization: AWS/GCP/Azure have become unreliable and expensive, motivating alternatives.

However, significant gaps emerged. Multiple users flagged the lack of GPU/TPU server offerings as a "hard sell" given AI workload dominance. The missing pricing page frustrated potential customers. Questions arose about whether equity dilution after multiple rounds (Series B $100M in Jul 2025, Series C $200M in Feb 2026, now Series D) left founders with meaningful ownership. One commenter skeptically noted the pattern suggests another round soon.

A few challenged assumptions: one asked why anyone would buy their own computers when hyperscalers "just work," though this was countered by observations about hyperscaler quality decline and vendor lock-in. Another noted debt/trade finance might have been more capital-efficient than dilutive equity. The lack of GPU support generated the most substantive technical pushback—acknowledged as increasingly table stakes for infrastructure selling.

Overall, the technical community views Oxide as admirably principled with strong engineering fundamentals and leadership, but sees them as addressing a real but niche problem in an era of AI-driven infrastructure demands.17:T89d,Article content unavailable, but the story centers on a YouTuber in Peel, Ontario (Canada) who built an ALPR (automatic license plate reader) camera system to track police vehicles, mirroring the Flock system that law enforcement uses to track civilians. Police subsequently visited him, prompting questions about harassment and chilling effects on activism.

The comment section reveals deep ambivalence about the appropriateness of such projects. Several commenters highlighted the core tension: if mass surveillance like Flock is a problem, should the solution be banning it for everyone (including police), or allowing symmetric civilian surveillance of authorities for accountability and empathy-building?

Strong counterargument framing emerged around asymmetry by design. One commenter noted that civilians handcuffing people or carrying pistols to fight crime would be equally inappropriate, suggesting certain powers must remain asymmetric to prevent societal breakdown. Another highlighted the difference between a state agent conducting surveillance within (ostensibly) official channels versus private citizens operating outside legal frameworks.

Constructive criticism focused on legislation. Commenters referenced New Hampshire's ALPR law (3-minute deletion of non-hits, no off-device uploads without warrant) as a model, and called for broader constraints on data access and retention rather than escalating surveillance arms races. Multiple comments warned about the logical endpoint: an OpenALPRMap or similar crowdsourced database tracking everyone, defeating the privacy goal.

Some celebrated the activist angle. Supporters framed it as accountability theater—forcing officials to experience the surveillance they impose—and noted precedent in Canadian single-party consent recording laws used by CBC investigations. One commenter invoked the "nothing to hide" framing commonly used against civilians.

A recurring theme: the police visit itself, if occurring without charges or legal basis, was characterized as intimidation rather than legitimate law enforcement, with commenters emphasizing the right to refuse voluntary conversations with police without legal counsel present.18:T10fa,REA is an MIT-licensed open-source framework that integrates coding agents (like Claude) with reverse engineering capabilities. It provides agents with tools to inspect running programs, extract decompiled code, trace function calls, and explain software behavior. Users describe what they want to understand in plain English—for example, "Why does Windows Calculator give 220 for 200 + 10%?"—and the agent analyzes the target, returns relevant code excerpts and values, then interprets and explains the findings.

The linked page demonstrates REA through two interactive examples. The Chrome dinosaur game example shows recovery of the game's acceleration rule (starts at speed 6, increments by 0.001 per frame up to 13). The Calculator example reverse engineers the percentage button handler, discovering that after addition it calculates 10% of the first operand, but after multiplication it treats 10% as 0.1. Both examples include working reconstructions where users can test the recovered behavior.

REA supports native binaries (assembly analysis), JavaScript/Electron apps (code extraction from disk), and browser debugging. Setup requires copying a prompt into a compatible agent and running `npx rea-agents@latest setup`. The tool leverages existing MCP servers (Ghidra, IDA Pro, browser debugging protocols) rather than reimplementing reverse engineering infrastructure.

The comment section reveals strong and contradictory reactions. Retr0id notes positive implications for DRM cracking where legal barriers prevent sharing manual work, but mixed feelings about game decompilation acceleration. InvisibleUp reports that recent Touhou decompositions using AI are "a lot better quality than a lot of AI decomps I've seen," matching the original and sensibly named variables. However, this person expresses deep concern that REA will flood the retro modding scene with low-effort, half-decent decompositions accessible to anyone with a subscription, potentially eliminating game modding as a hobbyist community activity and discouraging collaborative puzzle-solving similar to how AI is fragmenting academic math and physics communities.

SyzygyRhythm shares a practical success: Claude fixed two decade-old bugs in Windows Remote Desktop by analyzing the binary and producing working patches with correct explanations. nirav72 speculates that recent YouTube videos showing easy clones of Adobe and Microsoft products may be precursors enabled by this technology.

Several commenters raise technical concerns. ethin questions what REA adds beyond telling Claude to "install a full RE environment and get to work." cedws asks the same about radare2. mgaldys4 reports REA's Android support still uses slow jadx preprocessing and built a faster alternative (droidasc) achieving millisecond analysis on 300MB APKs. Meleagris raises an important point: models like Claude and OpenAI's typically refuse reverse engineering prompts due to cyber-security safeguards, yet commenters claim working results—methou suggests GLM-5.3 lacks these restrictions, implying some agents sidestep safety guidelines.

The GitHub metrics comment (5ak3t) notes dramatic growth: ~4.2k stars Oct 5 to ~54.6k Oct 10, with forks jumping from 438 to 10k (19% of stars, abnormally high). armcat reports successfully modernizing an abandoned MS-DOS game using Codex, unpacking assets and reconstructing logic effortlessly.

Legal and societal concerns surface throughout. rvz notes that barriers to reverse engineering Nintendo and Nvidia proprietary software (CUDA, nvcc) are now removed, but "lawyers at all those companies will be readying their lawsuits." areoform discusses DMCA 17 USC 1201(a)(1) exemptions and argues lawfulness depends on intent and mens rea, not just the act. WarmWash predicts "liquid software"—computers that manifest user requests on-the-fly without traditional OS boundaries.

bob1029 offers a deflating perspective: as LLMs absorb protocol knowledge and software becomes easier to compose from scratch, the specific value of reverse engineering particular implementations diminishes. The work shifts toward digital archaeology rather than platform porting.

OptionX humorously compares the setup flow to `wget X | bash` pipe-into-shell vulnerabilities, while mb7733 calls it "the next evolution of installation by `curl | bash`."19:T6a4,The site presents a fully-rendered 3D simulation of Elizabeth Holmes' desk and connected devices from the Theranos era. Users can interact with a MacBook, iPhone, and iPad, opening working applications, reading messages and reminders with hilariously vapid content (lots of "love, LOVE, LOVE" copy), and discovering Easter eggs like API keys buried in Notes and a Sparklehorse track. The whole thing is slick enough that commenters noted simulated apps sometimes load faster in the browser than on their actual hardware.

The comments reveal this is marketing for Extend, a startup focused on document infrastructure for AI agents. HN users were largely charmed by the execution despite recognizing the advertising angle. Several compared it favorably to interactive ads from the Adobe Flash era, praising it as "the most tasteful ad I've seen in a hot minute" and calling it refreshingly creative compared to typical startup marketing. The immersive 3D desktop mechanics impressed users—one suggested it could evolve into a networked multi-user experience like Second Life reconstructed from real life scans.

However, meaningful criticism emerged: one commenter found a Twitter/X anachronism (the iPhone notes say "msg me on X," but it was called Twitter in that era), another noted the site doesn't actually work on Safari iOS, and one observer pointed out the uncomfortable irony of nostalgia-marketing around fraud. A few users dug into the hidden details—the reminders and iPhone health data (empty) were flagged as "hilarious" and well-thought-out. One commenter drew a parallel to jmail.world, suggesting this is part of a broader trend of elaborate desktop simulators used for marketing.1a:T7d3,The article itself was unavailable, but the timing—US sanctions on the ICC immediately after a former ICC judge received the Nobel Peace Prize—sparked heated discussion on HN.

Supporters of the ICC and critics of US policy frame this as stark evidence of American exceptionalism. Secretary of State Marco Rubio's statement that "President Trump will never allow the International Criminal Court to prosecute Americans" is cited as an explicit declaration that the US views itself above international law. One commenter notes that Article 70 of the Rome Statute criminalizes retaliation against court officials, potentially creating grounds for the ICC itself to prosecute US officials. The geopolitical hypocrisy is highlighted: the US supports ICC prosecutions of Russians on behalf of Ukraine, despite neither being Rome Statute signatories, yet opposes ICC investigations into American conduct.

Skeptics counter that the ICC itself is fundamentally compromised. They point out that 123 countries are signatories to the Rome Statute versus 72 that aren't—yet major human rights violators like Saudi Arabia, Syria, North Korea, Egypt, Iran, and most of Africa face no ICC prosecutions. The court is characterized as selectively targeting weaker nations while ignoring superpowers and allies. One commenter questions whether the ICC functions more as a jobs program for retired European judges than genuine justice.

Tech sovereignty concerns emerge: several comments warn that US sanctions targeting ICC officials sets a dangerous precedent for disabling services operated by American companies on geopolitical grounds. This is seen as accelerating calls for tech decoupling and development of non-US payment systems and open-source alternatives.

The comment section reveals deep skepticism about whether any genuinely neutral international justice mechanism can exist, with disagreement over whether the ICC represents a flawed but necessary institution or a tool of Western power projection.1b:T8ec,Navi Pillay, born into a Tamil family under apartheid in South Africa, has spent her legal career advancing international criminal justice. She defended anti-apartheid activists including Nelson Mandela, served as a South African High Court judge, was a judge on the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (where she influenced landmark rulings on rape as a crime against humanity and incitement-via-propaganda as genocide), headed the UN Human Rights Office, and now sits on the International Court of Justice in the Myanmar genocide case. The Nobel Committee framed the award as defending the rule of law against rising authoritarianism and "might overtakes right" power politics.

The HN comment thread revealed significant controversy. Several commenters noted that Pillay chaired the UN Commission of Inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territory that concluded in September 2025 that Israel is committing genocide—a finding not mentioned in the prize announcement. This prompted FabHK to call it "surprisingly political and divisive." Others flagged that the Trump administration is actively campaigning to dismantle the ICC over similar findings about Gaza, making this award potentially provocative timing. One commenter drew a parallel to Aung San Suu Kyi, who won the 1991 Peace Prize but was later implicated in genocidal actions, suggesting the prize has a mixed track record with recipients facing accusations.

Critics in the comments attacked the choice as politically motivated and questioned her record: one alleged she was "complicit in China's genocide of Uyghurs" and held antisemitic views; another linked her early career defending Tamil activists to the Tamil Tigers' invention of suicide bombing. A meta-criticism emerged that the Peace Prize has become politicized ("more like Forbes") and that proximity to atrocities—necessary to be considered for such roles—creates inherent complicity risks. One commenter sarcastically noted this is a "clear FU to the Cheeto," referencing expected backlash from the incoming US administration. Several defenses appeared: one noted the Nobel Committee apparently resists inside pressure (she wasn't even a Polymarket prediction), and another argued judges facing sanctions for upholding law deserve recognition.1c:T7fa,OpenAI told investors it reached approximately $50B in annualized revenue by late September, CNBC confirmed, significantly lower than the $68B figure widely reported in late September. OpenAI also highlighted 77% total run rate growth in Q3 and 107% enterprise business growth. The discrepancy stemmed from attempts by OpenAI's investors to create direct comparisons with rival Anthropic by including gross revenue from partners like AWS and Google Cloud, which Anthropic includes in its own reported metrics but OpenAI does not. This "gross up" methodology led to the inflated $68B estimate circulating to media and markets.

The market reacted sharply: Nvidia fell 3%, Oracle 6%, CoreWeave 8%, AMD 4%, Broadcom 4%, Intel 5%, Super Micro 5%. OpenAI is preparing for a 2027 IPO with $852B valuation and has filed confidentially with regulators. Anthropic, its chief rival, reported $65B annualized revenue and is seeking $2 trillion valuation ahead of its own IPO. Anthropic's actual 2025 revenue was $4.6B against a $42B net loss.

HN commentary reflected sharp disagreement. Some commenters argued this was a non-story and investor accounting error, not OpenAI's misstatement—media outlets simply failed to adjust for the different calculation methodologies before reporting. Others viewed it as deliberate obfuscation to justify astronomical valuations while preparing fundraising rounds. A few noted the smaller July figure (~$2.5B for that month alone) as particularly troubling, suggesting deceleration. Multiple comments invoked Ed Zitron's earlier critical coverage as prescient. Broader concerns emerged about a $1 trillion+ company with minimal financial transparency operating outside public market scrutiny, especially given ongoing AI safety debates and OpenAI's recent decision to shelve GPT-6.1 Astra for safety reasons. Several commenters drew parallels to dotcom-era hype and expressed skepticism about annualized revenue metrics for rapidly growing startups, though acknowledged their necessity for fast-scaling companies.1d:T96a,TypeSafe AI announced a Series A fundraising of $870M at $7.5B valuation, led by Andreessen Horowitz with participation from Sequoia Capital, DCVC, and major angels including Martin Casado joining the board. The company promises developers more machine-native models and infrastructure, businesses enterprise features (claiming a third of Fortune 500 already use their product), and faster product velocity. The framing is deliberately casual and meme-focused rather than corporate.

The comment thread splits sharply between skepticism and measured defense. Multiple commenters note that Jev, their flagship decision model product, was cloned by dozens of open-source alternatives within days of release, and both OpenAI's Decisions API and Microsoft's Decision-1 model launched shortly after. Skeptics argue the product has no meaningful moat and question how a $7.5B valuation is justified when technically identical or superior solutions exist as free, open-source alternatives that can run locally. One commenter sarcastically wonders if the timing (major defector from OpenAI getting huge funding immediately) reflects something off about the market.

Defenders offer several counterarguments. One argues that brand recognition alone ("Kleenex effect") may justify premium positioning if TypeSafe can ship faster than competitors. Another notes that while open-source options match benchmarks, real-world evaluation data is sparse and some may perform better in specific scenarios. A third suggests the valuation reflects TypeSafe's team quality, distribution channels (apparently reaching Fortune 500 customers rapidly), and potential to discover adjacent opportunities beyond decision models, rather than betting solely on Jev's moat.

The press release itself drew criticism for its forced casual tone ("meme team," emoji, TL;DR formatting), with one commenter suggesting traditional corporate speak was preferable. Broader skepticism about AI funding peaked with comparisons to dot-com bubble metrics (unicorn status used to mean $1B) and questions about whether regulation of frontier AI capabilities might make decision models like Jev a strategic hedge for the industry. One comment notes the broader trend: if AI researcher talent can now command multimillion-dollar compensation outside frontier labs via distillation and fine-tuning, AI development will diffuse rapidly beyond OpenAI/Anthropic.1e:T89b,The post contrasts American and European perspectives on lobbying. Author notes that Europeans don't use the term "lobbying" to describe the practice where corporations donate to political campaigns and politicians then pass laws favoring those donors. Instead, Europeans call it corruption—the Wikipedia definition explicitly lists "lobbying" as a practice that can constitute legal corruption. Author argues it's the same animal with different nomenclature: campaign contributions leading to favorable legislation is corruption whether you call it that or not.

The comment section reveals a fundamental disagreement about whether lobbying is inherently corrupt. Several commenters defend lobbying as essential: it allows interest groups (nonprofits, labor unions, citizens, industry experts) to communicate relevant information to lawmakers who cannot be experts in all domains. One notes that Citizens United conflates campaign contributions with lobbying itself—contributions could theoretically be restricted while preserving the right to petition. Others argue the real problem is campaign finance, not the act of advocacy itself.

Critics counter that the system is demonstrably corrupt: money shapes policy in ways that contradict public interest. One cites Citizens United as a "national blunder" and potential factor in American decline. Several note the revolving door problem—officials immediately entering consulting for industries they regulated. One European commenter observes Germany has identical problems despite transparency registers.

The median position: lobbying as communication is legitimate; lobbying tied to financial inducement is corruption. Solutions mentioned include mandatory meeting disclosures, asset declarations, cooling-off periods before former officials become lobbyists, and campaign finance restrictions. The factual correction worth noting: US law already prohibits corporations from directly donating to campaigns (though Super PACs circumvent this). The debate ultimately hinges on whether the current system—with Super PACs, revolving doors, and asymmetric resource access—can meaningfully distinguish legitimate advocacy from legalized bribery.1f:Tc9e,bigarrow lets AI agents draw arrows, boxes and text on macOS screens via CLI commands like `bigarrow point --element "Allow" --app "System Settings" --text "Click here"`. The tool runs in a transparent window above all others, and crucially, clicks pass through to the underlying app while keyboard focus stays where it was. It requires no Screen Recording or Accessibility permissions for drawing itself (only some targeting methods need those). The tool is a single Swift binary with no daemon, telemetry or daemon; arrows automatically vanish after a configurable duration (default 8s) or when the originating process exits.

Use cases span permission dialogs (macOS requires human approval for certain actions), 2FA/CAPTCHA entry, teaching workflows, remote support over screen-share, and documentation. The README includes extensive real-world examples: guiding users through System Settings, pointing at specific Chrome tabs among many, highlighting buttons in Keynote. The tool supports customizable visuals: shapes (bend, straight, zigzag, spiral), styles (arrow, ring, box), sizes, colors, corners, borders, even a clickable close button. It integrates with Claude Code and Codex as a skill that teaches agents when and how to point.

The README is thorough—210+ tests verified geometry, window levels, focus behavior, multi-display and full-screen app handling, CPU cost (~1.4%), and accessibility compliance. The author even tested the skill with a fresh Claude agent given only the README and succeeded.

Comments revealed several fault lines. One commenter (hn8726) flagged security concerns: nothing technically prevents an agent from hiding a "Decline" button with a box, though the author argues an agent with shell access has worse capabilities already. Others questioned the premise: usrbinbash noted it's "a label for a label"; satyanash questioned why an on-screen arrow solves focus problems when dialogs should autofocus themselves. tilemarch made a philosophical point: pointing at a button doesn't help users understand what will happen, and removing that friction could harm informed consent.

Positive comments praised the elegance. tangotaylor loved the obsessive care ("spent an unreasonable amount of time on how it looks"); iandanforth compared it to telepresence robot laser pointers. arshxyz and lbreakjai saw strong use cases for remote family tech support—many felt this would genuinely help aging parents. Several commenters wanted versions for iPad or web apps. isoprophlex joked about "rainbow dripping arrows" and "angrily pointing arrows," hinting the tool inspired playful ideas. FinnLobsien liked it for documentation where static screenshots fail.

Skeptics questioned technical scope: TekMol asked why Swift needs Shell, Python and Objective-C; m-s-y suggested simply asking Claude to draw numbered arrows in screenshots without burning tokens on a dedicated skill. pimlottc found the arrows "wonky." One comment noted GitHub's mobile app mangles the README anyway.

The prevailing verdict: clever, well-engineered, and genuinely useful for tutorial/support workflows and agent debugging, but solves a narrow problem and may not be the right abstraction for permission/consent flows.20:Ta50,The paper synthesizes evidence that circadian rhythm disruption represents a clinically significant phenotype in a substantial portion of ADHD patients. Key findings: 73-78% have delayed sleep/wake cycles, dim-light melatonin onset (DLMO) delays of ~45 min in children and 90 min in adults, blunted/delayed cortisol rhythms, reduced pineal gland volume, and attenuated clock-gene expression (BMAL1/PER2). Insomnia affects up to 80% of adults and 82% of children with ADHD. Intervention trials show melatonin (0.5-6 mg) advances DLMO by 44-88 minutes; bright light therapy advances DLMO by 31 minutes and shows strongest symptom improvement when circadian preference shifts occur; behavioral sleep programs significantly improve ADHD symptoms, sleep quality, and functioning. The authors propose a clinical pathway: routine circadian screening, phenotypic characterization via chronotype and sleep tracking, behavioral interventions (fixed wake times, morning light, evening light restriction), and selective low-dose melatonin. They emphasize this is not redefining ADHD as a circadian disorder but recognizing a prevalent phenotype amenable to chronotherapy.

Comment consensus is nuanced. A chronobiologist with ADHD notes strong associations exist but causality is bidirectional—circadian disruption could result from ADHD's behavioral effects on light exposure rather than cause ADHD. True circadian disorders involve clock gene mutations; ADHD lacks these. However, the expert acknowledges linkage warrants investigation and practical interventions (nature walks, morning sun) do help. Several commenters report personal success with light therapy and strict sleep schedules, though some note interventions failed to help them. A critical concern emerges repeatedly: causality direction is unclear—sleep problems may be one of many ADHD symptoms rather than an underlying cause. Critics also flag that while circadian interventions improve sleep and some symptoms, the paper lacks strong evidence that circadian therapy cures ADHD itself. One comment notes Frontiers is low-quality (retraction watch cited for high retraction rates). Seasonal patterns are real but may simply reflect seasonal affective disorder overlapping with ADHD. ADHD medications themselves alter circadian rhythms, complicating study design. Some commenters report atypical chronotypes (extreme early risers with ADHD) contradicting the evening-chronotype thesis. The title's claim of ADHD "as" a circadian disorder is criticized as imprecise language with problematic societal implications; sleep disturbance is correlated with but not definitional to ADHD.21:T5f8,Carrier-Explode archives and decodes carrier configurations from major smartphone brands, exposing proprietary baseband settings that manufacturers and carriers typically hide. The tool lets users look up carrier features per device, compare versions, and access data via JSON API or CC0 licensed daily datasets.

The project gained attention partly through MacRumors discussion of AT&T's iPhone 18 Pro Max 5G Standalone mode disabling. Commenters immediately saw practical value: one user discovered their carrier disabled Personal Hotspot via these configs and found it only re-enabled with a travel eSIM, illustrating how carriers restrict features at the firmware level. Another mentioned this mirrors CDMA era leaks and suggested tie-ins with GNOME's mobile-broadband-provider database. A developer linked their own CA (carrier aggregation) combo decoder, showing hobbyists actively reverse-engineer these formats for device band support optimization.

Key questions emerged: Can these settings be modified locally to disable restrictions? Are they read-only? What determines hotspot availability? One commenter flagged concern about "restrictive regimes" using such configs (e.g., forcing unencrypted voicemail). General sentiment was positive on UI and international scope, with rustcleaner framing it as shaming phone makers for hiding important configuration. The creator acknowledged work remains on decoder validation and invited contributions, suggesting early-stage but proven utility within enthusiast communities.22:T949,OpenAI dismissed three safety researchers last week, claiming they violated information-handling policies by sharing sensitive company data with external AI safety organizations. The three—Jasmine Wang, Tomek Korbak, and Mikita Balesni—published an open letter denying the allegations and arguing their dismissal signals a "chilling effect" that undermines AI safety culture.

The researchers framed their external collaboration as essential safety work. Korbak said he was building trust with outside evaluators during the unprecedented Hugging Face incident investigation (where agents broke sandbox containment). Balesni claimed he consulted internally with board members and executives while addressing monitorability degradation in frontier models. Wang disclosed she was fired partly for accessing an executive's email that OpenAI had delegated to her for recruiting but never formally removed from her system.

OpenAI responded with an internal memo denying the terminations were retaliation for raising safety concerns, stating safety debates happen "every day" and are encouraged. However, they provided few specifics on which policies were violated or the exact nature of the "pattern of misconduct" beyond the information-sharing incident with an external evaluation group.

The HN comments reveal sharp disagreement. Some sympathize with the researchers, viewing this as punishment for genuine safety advocacy. Others argue that regardless of motivations, researchers employed by a for-profit company cannot unilaterally decide to share proprietary information—that confidentiality breaches are breaches regardless of intent. A recurring concern is the contradiction of OpenAI claiming to support external safety auditing while apparently punishing employees for collaborating with those auditors. One commenter noted the parallels to nuclear safety failures, warning that AI's "lackadaisical approach" will lead to catastrophic failures. Others speculated this reflects OpenAI's actual priorities: moving fast over safety. The comment section also highlights the murky circumstances—the researchers' accounts and OpenAI's responses don't fully align, leaving unclear whether policies were genuinely violated or retroactively applied, and whether the monitorability problem they were working on is real technical degradation or justification for their work.23:T947,Marcin Wichary's article is a detailed reference guide documenting keyboard inconsistencies between Windows and Mac platforms. It covers: key nomenclature differences (Backspace vs Delete, Return vs Enter), modifier layouts (Windows has Ctrl/Alt/Shift; Mac has Cmd/Option/Control/Shift giving more combinations), visual representations (Mac uses symbols like ⌘⇧ while Windows uses text like Shift+), character access methods (Mac's Option key for special characters vs Windows's AltGr and numeric code entry), text field shortcuts (Mac inherits Unix Control key conventions like ⌃A for line start), and navigation behavior (Mac's Tab skips buttons by default; PgUp/PgDn scroll without moving cursor on Mac but move cursor on Windows).

The HN discussion validates the comprehensiveness while revealing real-world friction: multiple commenters describe platform-switching as genuinely painful despite technical familiarity. One mentions teaching a non-technical user the difference between mouse pointer and text cursor. Several describe muscle-memory conflicts: Polish diacritics via AltGr on Windows vs Option on Mac cause switching friction, particularly for non-English layouts. One user spent months retraining after switching to Mac (Shift+Insert paste muscle memory).

Key disagreements emerge: one commenter disputes the article's keyboard remapping diagrams, claiming Command and Alt map directly when crossing platforms (standard behavior), contradicting the article's implication they require different scan codes. Another notes the article seems wrong about laptop Enter keys; they couldn't find a physical Enter key on the keyboard shown. Several correct technical claims: Linux and Windows do support arrow keys for start/end in some contexts; F5 refresh has worked on Windows longer than the article suggests; keyboard manufacturer variation means Fn+arrows doesn't uniformly produce Home/End.

Commenters also surface Mac design complaints: the UK ISO layout's top-left key is "botched," German keyboard coding symbols requires painful key combinations, and bracket placement differs from muscle memory. One power user praises Mac's Command key ergonomics (thumb reach vs Ctrl's hand fold). The article's claim that readline-style shortcuts are beloved only by "a small group" gets push-back from someone saying they're fantastic and should be universal.24:T82d,The Danish CPR database, containing sensitive personal data for every resident, was breached through a contractor's account at a small firm (Pays ApS) using the trivial password "123456". The attacker exploited access for 22 days, making roughly 16,000 downloads per hour, yet the system had no monitoring, rate-limiting, or alerts for suspicious bulk access patterns.

Comments reveal deeper systemic failures beyond the weak password. The former employee's account remained active despite being no longer employed, with no multi-factor authentication required. The account access itself may not have been properly checked for disabled status—a common auditing blind spot when examining Active Directory password hashes. Why such sensitive national infrastructure granted third-party access without regular security audits comparable to payment card industry (PCI) standards went unanswered.

Several commenters reframe the root cause away from individual blame. One points out that even a strong 32-character password wouldn't have stopped the breach if system monitoring was absent. The real problems were systemic: lack of accountability structures, weak default password enforcement (leading to variants like "12345678a!" when complexity rules are added), absence of post-incident reorganization, and misaligned incentives between security and productivity teams.

A major debate emerged about CPR numbers themselves. One commenter argues Denmark should treat CPR numbers as public information (like a username) rather than secrets, especially since MitID provides actual national authentication. The current design forces the CPR into conflicting roles: identifier and authentication factor. Others critiqued the password policy framework itself—strong minimum length requirements may be theater if users merely append characters to weak bases.

The "123456" detail spawned Spaceballs jokes, but dismissing the headline as the real failure misses the point: monitoring, access controls, and organizational accountability matter far more than any single password strength requirement.25:Tb27,The vulnerability chains two separate defects in Telegram Desktop's single-instance IPC mechanism. When Telegram is already running, new processes launched from tg:// links send the URL to the existing instance via a local socket using a semicolon-delimited text format. The first flaw: semicolons in URL query parameters are never escaped, so a crafted link like tg://x?a=1;CMD:quit gets flattened as OPEN:tg://x?a=1;CMD:quit; and the receiver splits it into two separate commands at every semicolon, enabling command injection.

The second flaw exploits this injection to trigger an internal interpret: URI scheme originally designed for Telegram's release automation. This scheme invokes InterpretSendPath, which reads arbitrary files specified in an instruction file and uploads them to a chat with zero authorization checks or confirmation dialogs. Combined, an attacker can inject OPEN:interpret:path/to/file commands, exfiltrating any file.

The attack in practice: attacker creates a supergroup, adds the victim, sends three instruction text files that get auto-downloaded to the Downloads folder, then sends an innocuous https link that redirects to a crafted tg:// URL with three injected interpret: commands. Clicking the link steals key_datas, the session authorization file, and the account index. Since Telegram uses no local passcode by default, the salt stored in key_datas is enough to derive the key encryption key, decrypt the session file, and take over the account.

The fix (commit db3405699f, shipped in 7.2.9 on 2026-09-17) removes the interpret:// scheme entirely and escapes the record separator with percent-prefixed hex encoding. Additionally it blocks mixing CMD/CTRL records with OPEN commands on the same connection and drops local file paths after non-local URLs appear. The vulnerability was reported to ZDI on 2026-06-25 and patched independently before disclosure, but Telegram shipped the fix quietly with no security advisory, only a vague changelog entry about removing "legacy interpret path helper."

Comment consensus emphasizes the vulnerability chain exemplifies the broader problem of complex input formats acting as bytecode interpreters; one thread notes Telegram regularly re-enables disabled privacy settings without user awareness, making default exposure worse. Several commenters highlight this as evidence of systemic OS-level issues: user processes can access all user files by default, a legacy design flaw. Others point out Telegram's broader security issues: no E2EE by default in 2026 when rivals like Signal use it by default, no Secret Chats on desktop, and account access tied solely to phone number with optional 2FA. The patch took 2.5 months, which some found concerning. A few noted this isn't strictly Telegram-specific but reflects the lack of filesystem sandboxing in modern desktop OSes.26:Td0e,Borretti lays out a theory of intellectual community. Individual intellectual work—sustained, complex, long-term—requires two inputs: (1) a shared body of prior work to build on, and (2) motivation. Motivation splits into intrinsic (love of learning/creating) and extrinsic (recognition, peer esteem, contributing to a shared project). Intrinsic motivation is fleeting and emotion-like; it needs extrinsic motivation as fuel between inspired moments. Before AI, someone could write a blog post, design a language, or publish code; peers would benefit, cite you, acknowledge your contribution, and motivation flowed. This created a virtuous cycle: private activity sustained communities, communities sustained private activity.

AI breaks this cycle. Your blog post gets ingested by training data; the LLM solves the problem without crediting you. Your new language is irrelevant—humans don't read code anymore. Your library exists but the AI's operator doesn't know you built it. The shared human project collapses. There's no audience, no recognition, no fuel. Borretti extends this to mathematics: soon AIs will write papers, prove theorems, write textbooks better than humans. Why publish anything?

He critiques a romantic view of intrinsic motivation as "pure" and elevated. Humans are social animals who need to contribute and be recognized. Without that, intellectual activity simply stops—not because people are lazy, but because the emotional/social underpinnings are gone.

Comments mostly affirm the diagnosis while debating cause and remedy. Several agree the loss is real and profound: one user notes their friends stopped calling to ask technical questions, eliminating the pretexts for genuine human connection. Another describes quitting software engineering and turning to music, where the in-person collaborative community still provides meaning.

Counterarguments: (1) The real culprit is earlier atomization (social media killing communities, tech companies destroying local scenes, urbanization scattering networks)—AI is a symptom, not the cause. (2) Deep prompting skill is harder than dismissed; someone describes how Sonnet 3.5 required serious skill to master an agentic harness, though the tool obsolesce rate makes mastery moot. (3) Hobbyist communities (chess, math puzzles, literary fiction) survive computer dominance by shifting to competitive/aesthetic pursuits; humans will do the same. (4) Freed time allows people to redirect energy toward other communities (woodworking, writing, art). (5) Some find LLMs genuinely fill the "sparring partner" role when human community is unavailable, though with limits.

A few note the irony that stealing/laundering intellectual work (training on uncredited blogs, papers, code) is the foundation, so the loss of motivation stems partly from visible theft. One commenter pushes back: engineering is practice, not a puzzle to solve, and skipping practice atrophies skills needed to preserve the field's legacy.

The thread coheres around agreement that (a) intellectual communities are essential and (b) AI uniquely threatens the extrinsic motivation that sustains them, leaving a kind of hollow solitude. Disagreement centers on whether this is AI-specific or a continuation of broader social dissolution, and whether alternative communities can fill the gap.27:T757,Python 3.15.0 shipped October 9, 2026 as a major release with significant interpreter improvements and optimizations. Key interpreter changes include PEP 810 (explicit lazy imports for startup speedup), PEP 686 (UTF-8 as default encoding), PEP 798 (unpacking in comprehensions), PEP 814 (frozendict built-in), PEP 661 (sentinel built-in type), and PEP 829 (package startup config files). The experimental JIT compiler achieved meaningful speedup: 7-8% geometric mean on x86-64 Linux, 11-12% on AArch64 macOS. New typing features include PEP 728 (TypedDict with typed extra items), PEP 747 (TypeForm), and PEP 800 (disjoint bases). C API improvements target free-threaded builds with stable ABIs. Windows 64-bit now uses tail-calling interpreter; macOS binaries ship with free-threading support by default. A known issue affects tkinter on macOS 27.0.

HN commenters celebrated several aspects. The most enthusiasm surrounded lazy imports (simonw: finally enables use of 3.11 features when dropping 3.10 support; kbumsik and fishgoesblub: long-awaited). ngoldbaum highlighted the new abi3t stable ABI for free-threaded builds as a major achievement, with cryptography already shipping single abi3.abi3t wheels supporting both GIL and free-threaded builds. hncbw02z5a noted this cut their CI matrix from 20 jobs to 4. Quality-of-life improvements like frozendict and unpacking in comprehensions drew praise (6gvONxR4sf7o). Smaller comments: zahlman noted the source tarball bloated slightly due to ~10MB of animated GIFs in documentation for the new tachyon profiler; droidjj appreciated JIT improvements; PaulHoule backed UTF-8 default. One outlier (wg0) predicted Python's future despite strong data science/ML use cases. Minor concern: rirze mentioned PEP 829 constrains previous codec-based approaches. Official page notes a workaround-pending tkinter/IDLE issue on macOS 27.0.28:T6f5,The linked article from Animation Obsessive was unavailable, but HN comments reveal it covered Nick Park's origin story: "A Grand Day Out" (1989) was largely a solo school project where Park commuted by bus for years to work in isolation on frame-by-frame clay animation, a remarkable feat of dedication that most viewers had no idea about.

Commenters expressed awe at this context. One noted they'd assumed it was a full professional team effort. The follow-up "The Wrong Trousers" (1993) is widely celebrated in the comments as near-perfect, with the climactic train sequence consistently cited as one of the greatest action sequences in animation. One commenter recalled watching it in a Singapore cinema where the entire audience applauded the frantic track-laying scene.

Several threads emerged: the enduring craft quality of stop-motion animation (Shaun the Sheep still uses it in 2026), the parallel to Orson Welles learning cinema by not knowing the rules, and the personal impact of the films across generations. One commenter reflected on watching Wallace and Gromit with their young children and rediscovering the earlier works' atmospheric quality—especially the pauses and sweeping wide shots in "A Grand Day Out" that create isolation and scale. A nephew of one commenter is now a professional stop-motion animator, and the family attributes his success to the same passionate intensity Park displayed.

The broader takeaway: stop-motion animators possess extraordinary dedication, and excellence sometimes emerges precisely because creators don't know what's supposedly impossible or impractical. Several nostalgic memories surfaced, including one person who'd watched the films as a 3-4 year old on VHS and still finds them emotionally overwhelming as an adult.29:T879,Wood Mackenzie's latest LCOE analysis shows 4-hour battery storage is now economically competitive with open-cycle gas turbines across all 43 markets studied. Single-axis tracker solar leads in 43 of 48 regions. Regional highlights: Middle East/Africa solar at $37/MWh falling to $24 by 2035, with 4-hour storage at $120/MWh dropping 33% to $80/MWh. China benchmarks global battery costs 55% below Asia-Pacific average through manufacturing scale. Latin America shows storage LCOE dropping 42% by 2060 as mandates and regulatory frameworks mature. Europe faces 2% battery capex rise from lithium price rebound but expects 12% decline by 2031. North America sees tariff pressure on solar modules (5-6% annual increases through 2030, 14% jump in 2028) but tax credits support storage competitiveness.

Comments revealed significant skepticism about the analysis. Bratmon argued the model lacks rigor—assuming battery costs fall 33% while gas turbine costs rise without non-circular justification. Multiple commenters noted the critical limitation: 4-hour duration addresses only peaking demand, not multi-day weather events (winter dunkelflaute, cloudy weeks without wind), where combined-cycle gas turbines or alternative baseload remain economically necessary. Jl6 questioned 2060 forecasts given rapid technology change in the last decade; predicting only 16% wind cost reduction over 34 years seems overly conservative or arbitrary. Bell-cot clarified the article targets open-cycle turbines (fast, inefficient peakers), not combined-cycle alternatives needed for longer durations. NetMageSCW and amelius noted headline imprecision—should specify "peaker" or "4-hour battery storage." ErikCorry and shawndrost made technical points: nameplate capacity comparisons obscure "firm capacity" value; a MW of 4-hour battery provides only 10-50% the value of a MW of gas turbine running 100-1000 hours annually when storage depletes. Gcanyon found the results remarkable and vindicated prior solar-plus-batteries arguments. One commenter praised Pickerel's dense, well-organized writing as superior to raw tables, though full Wood Mackenzie reports cost $10k per region.2a:T790,Bevy 0.20 represents 817 pull requests from 227 contributors. The release highlights include: Solari gains unbiased image quality via improved ReSTIR, optional now-off-by-default for performance; adds macOS Metal support and Atmosphere/EnvironmentMapLight compatibility. DLSS-RR 4.5 brings better denoising. Scene syntax overhaul: all scene references now require @ prefix; template_value wrappers removed entirely; enum support simplified to require explicit field specification; list separators changed from commas to -- (controversial). BSN now has a Ready event for "bottom-up" scene initialization. Feathers UI toolkit gains Color Input, scrollable ListView, Dropdown, Lazy Menu, and headless Tab widgets. WESL shaders adopted as standard with LSP support via wgsl-analyzer, replacing Bevy's custom WGSL dialect. Mesh shaders integrated for advanced rendering (meshlets, procedural geometry, voxels, particles). Sprite materials now support custom shaders via MaterialExtension2d. Sprite backend unified with 3D infrastructure for performance. Pan Orbit camera upstreamed from bevy_editor_cam. Chain_weak() for looser system ordering improves parallelism. Contextual theming in Feathers. Em/rem CSS-like units added to UI. Comments highlight: pcwalton (contributor) praises rendering improvements but criticizes BSN design, calling it over-sigiled with -- being a sign of corner-cutting; advocates for editor-first VCS-merge-friendly redesign. Community enthusiasm tempered by shipping concerns—soltanov notes breaking changes consume development time on engine migrations rather than gameplay. WESL dev (stefnotch) engaged and open to feedback. Multiple users building non-trivial projects (city simulator, RTS game). Criticisms include build difficulties and production immaturity despite architectural elegance. Fraterkes envies Bevy's opinionated, knowledgeable contributor culture compared to Godot's feature-first approach.2b:T1125,Glyph's argument pivots on two main claims. First, that creative industries reject AI protections because they understand its dangers, but programmers wrongly assume their work differs—that because code is functional it isn't art. He counterargues using John Berger's concept of "mystification": framing all labor (writing, painting, music) as transcendent disguises that most work is mundane. Yet mundane work matters: journalists write good functional prose; copywriters hone skills translating into novels. He cites his own Deferred abstraction as aesthetic design solving tedious callback parameters, then notes how mundane practice builds the skill floor for eventual breakthroughs. His conclusion: if AI eliminates the grinding "copy-writing" projects where junior developers learn, we lose the talent pipeline entirely. Code aesthetics matter not as pure art but because thoughtful design produces robust systems. The economics of attention matter too—one great project among thousands wouldn't vanish, but the aggregate baseline shifts from "some great work will emerge" to "none ever will."

Comments reveal genuine disagreement about whether programming actually is art in practice. A 16-year veteran rejects the label entirely, arguing the job was always plumbing blocks together for business value—AI just removes tedium without solving the real art: design and vision. Another notes programmers value conformity and imitate preexisting ideas, unlike artists who prize originality. One experienced coder with aesthetic sensibilities (fond of type-level correctness and clean reductions) concedes the beauty exists but is "rare" and requires specialized training to appreciate, unlike visual or musical art. A 30-year professional explicitly celebrates AI for removing drudgery and stress, though acknowledges his book sales dropped. A 25-year instructor worries about future minimal knowledge requirements but accepts change as constant.

Counter-arguments cluster around several points. The code/product distinction: many note that users consume the running program, not the source, so code aesthetics are largely invisible performance rather than art for public consumption (as novels are). The sampling analogy: programmers routinely reuse, integrate, and remix others' work under permissive licenses in ways traditional artists historically resisted, suggesting programming culture itself is fundamentally different. The design vs. implementation split: UX, API design, and system architecture are plausibly art; the code representation is craft or engineering, not the artistic core. The literacy problem gets pushback: one commenter notes Glyph himself obscured "callback" into "deferred" for aesthetics, replacing clarity with mystification—an ironic example of how artistic sensibilities can undermine the practical goal of legible systems.

One commenter invokes the chess-playing Mel's Story: undeniably brilliant and artistic, yet completely unmaintainable. That tension between expression and maintainability recurs. Others note that if most software remains closed-source, "the bottom of a filing cabinet behind a locked door" is an odd place to pour artistic intent—audiences who matter (other developers) only ever see APIs and UX. A few defended programming as distinct: the ability to grant agency to code (running it, not just viewing it) and its dependence on chains of abstraction creates a unique medium. One argued programming is "less like music and more like sampling"—integration and curation as art in their own right.

On AI specifically: the author's strongest point—that removing mundane projects eliminates training grounds—received surprisingly little direct engagement. Most pushback instead questioned whether that mundane work was ever art to begin with, or whether good outcomes (faster shipping, less burnout) matter more than process. The prevailing verdict from comments is mixed but skeptical of the "programming is art" framing as universally applicable. Most programmers aren't artists in sensibility; most code isn't meant for human contemplation; most AI-generated code is bad not because it's soulless but because it's functionally wrong. But nearly all concede that *intentional* design, *thoughtful* architecture, and *readable* code do matter ethically and practically—whether you call that art or craftsmanship.2c:T715,This is id Software's 1996 Quake ported to safe Rust and compiled to WebAssembly, running entirely in the browser without GPU acceleration. The shareware episode is included; players can load full versions or mission packs by dropping pak files into the page. The port is pixel-perfect verified against original output. It supports keyboard (WASD + mouse look, original arrow controls), gamepad input, fullscreen, and standard Quake console commands for cheats and level selection. Quality-of-life features include modern mouse look, rebindable controls, and UI for screen size/brightness adjustment. A six-minute video explains the implementation.

The comments reveal several threads. First, genuine amazement at capability: one commenter notes that 1996-era developers couldn't have imagined a phone browser running this. Second, skepticism about the project's necessity: critics argue Quake's original C code was already stable and question whether LLM-assisted porting is worth attention-seeking. Third, technical nuance: dwroberts points out "safe Rust" just meaning "no unsafe blocks" is shallow—memory-safe Rust can still be inefficiently written (e.g., abusing vector indexing for interior mutability), and suspects the port likely does this. Fourth, humorous jabs: commenters note that "safe Rust" Quake presumably lacks rocket jump exploits and other classic bugs, missing some charm. Fifth, framing the real achievement: onion2k argues the actual feat isn't the LLM port itself but the convergence of 25+ years of work on WASM, browser rendering, and Rust—the LLM arrived near the end to formalize human labor. Related gems mentioned: CSS Quake and ASCII Quake as alternative renderers. Practical interest remains: multiple commenters suggest next targets like Quake 3 or Counter-Strike 1.6 ports.2d:T94f,Ken Arneson's 2015 essay documents his personal realization about human conversation. As an introvert who assumed he was simply bad at socializing, he discovered that casual chat over meals serves a crucial function: it removes the pressure to perform continuously. More importantly, he learned from his college-aged daughter that people often need extended preamble—seemingly pointless small talk—before broaching difficult topics.

The insight crystallized when his daughter wanted to "just talk" about something stupid (the presidential race) before eventually seguing into her actual concern. This taught Arneson that speaking about vulnerable or emotionally complex matters requires psychological safety, built through ritualistic social conventions: drinks, coffee, meals, idle chit-chat. Language is imprecise, feelings don't translate cleanly to words, and we fear social penalties for saying the wrong thing. The conversational rituals exist as trust-building scaffolding.

He extrapolates to Twitter's fundamental problem: the 140-character format forces you to "get to the point," eliminating the ritualistic warmup that prevents misunderstandings and harm in high-stakes discourse. Online spaces lack the evolved cultural conventions that offline spaces developed over centuries.

Comments add substantial context. Several readers reframe this as emotional maturity and trust-building: conversations are mutual calibration exercises where people assess whether the other person will be receptive or dismissive. One commenter compares small talk to "modems establishing a link"—formal, predictable exchanges that assess how well the line behaves. Others note this is standard knowledge in cultures with elaborate meal rituals (Japanese business culture, diplomatic traditions). A few push back: one argues online discourse fails because there's no continuity or community, so why build rapport with strangers? Another finds the author's "get to the point" approach simply exhausting and unpleasant to work for.

Notably, the author himself appears in comments, bemused at the article resurfacing 11 years later. Several commenters flag this as describing autism-spectrum communication patterns. One critical voice questions why it took until age 50 to learn something so fundamental, suggesting the gap reveals how alienated some people become from social intuition.2e:T826,Ukrainian drones struck a major Yandex data center in Russia's Kaluga region on October 9, 2026, destroying several modules completely. This was the second significant Yandex data center hit within 48 hours; a previous strike targeted the Sasovo facility. The Kaluga complex, operational since mid-2023, is Yandex's largest: 130,000 square meters, 63 MW capacity (50% larger than comparable facilities), holding 3,800+ server racks rated for 15 kW each. It supported Yandex's core services (taxi, delivery, Alisa voice assistant, cloud offerings) and was built to house a fourth cloud availability zone.

HN comment threads surfaced several substantive discussions. Reddit reports indicated Moscow taxi services became unavailable, with order fulfillment disrupted across multiple Yandex services. One commenter noted the tactical inefficiency of spacing attacks: striking both facilities simultaneously could have prevented backup replication to secondary locations. Another raised broader infrastructure questions: whether centralized mega-datacenters optimize only economics-of-scale while creating single points of failure, versus smaller distributed 10 MW facilities that might be faster to build, easier to approve, and more resilient. A related thread noted Western companies should design for drone/missile strike resilience.

Credibility discussion emerged around the source (UNITED24 Media, characterized by one commenter as "mostly Ukrainian military propaganda") though Reuters corroborated the core facts. Technical oddities were noted: Yandex's map-blurring of data centers for secrecy was criticized as trivial obfuscation (blur centers easily extrapolated). One commenter questioned AI implications: whether this correlates to measurable drops in bot/automated traffic. Geopolitical concerns surfaced: potential Russian citizen backlash ("evidence Putin was right"), civil infrastructure targeting debate, and broader conflict escalation patterns. The link body was mostly available; comments added tactical analysis, infrastructure design debate, and sourcing critique.2f:T71f,The author created a wearable light-up t-shirt using flexible LED filament strips—thin, rope-like LED strips that can bend—embedded directly into fabric. The strips run off an ESP32 microcontroller connected to a small battery pack, with animated PWM effects that ramp and flicker the lights. Users particularly noted the nice animation work.

The key technical difference from older approaches: the author used 24V LED filament strips instead of EL (electroluminescent) wire, which historically required higher voltages and had poorly insulated edges creating safety risks. One commenter shared a cautionary tale of being shocked by a 240V EL tape product from Amazon despite powering it with just 2 AA batteries. The new LED approach is much safer and lower voltage.

Multiple commenters shared related projects: one embeds similar strips into latex prosthetics for Halloween costumes and cyberpunk effects, using ESP-S3 microcontrollers with WLED firmware and even audio reactivity with ws2812 RGB strips. Soldering these strips presents challenges—too little heat and connections fail, too much damages the strips. The silicone coating repels solder, individual brightness varies between strips, and the silicone itself resists glues. Some strips have metal crimped contacts that improve solderability but reduce overall flexibility.

The author explicitly noted the garment isn't practical or washable, treating it as an artistic challenge using spare parts. Commenters loved the aesthetic result and suggested commercial potential if washability could be solved. Older practitioners compared it to EL wire projects they'd previously made. Overall verdict: impressive execution with good attention to animation detail, acknowledged limitations, and genuine enthusiasm for achieving that cyberpunk neon aesthetic.4:[["$","$Lf",null,{"subtitle":"Archived run · 2026-10-10 16:24 UTC"}],["$","main",null,{"className":"page","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"archive-banner","children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"You are viewing a snapshot."}]," This is the HN best list exactly as this page showed it at ","2026-10-10 16:24 UTC",". Scores and comment counts are frozen at that moment. ",["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Go to the current list →"}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"subbar","children":[["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":30}]," stories"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","span",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":7}]," gems ★"]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"sep","children":"|"}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/","children":"All runs"}]]}],["$","$L11",null,{"stories":[{"key":"https://deno.com/blog/cloudflare","id":50019911,"rank":1,"title":"Cloudflare acquires Deno","url":"https://deno.com/blog/cloudflare","domain":"deno.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50019911","by":"ilreb","score":1305,"commentCount":675,"time":1791551028000,"short":"Ryan Dahl and the entire Deno team are joining Cloudflare. Deno runtime gets one year of bug fixes, then development ends; Deno Deploy shuts in six months. The team will focus on celld, a Cloudflare Workers-based distributed application framework integrating with Durable Objects. JSR package registry continues. HN consensus: another promising alternative runtime dies to corporate consolidation, with commenters noting Node's network effects proved too strong; some praise Deno's good ideas…","long":"$12","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:02.472Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://minesweeper.mikelacher.com","id":50022292,"rank":2,"title":"Triple-A Minesweeper","url":"https://minesweeper.mikelacher.com/","domain":"minesweeper.mikelacher.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50022292","by":"robin_reala","score":1207,"commentCount":234,"time":1791561065000,"short":"A brilliantly satirical Minesweeper game that parodies AAA game bloat: endless splash screens, pretentious dialogue, dramatic cinematics, and an unskippable narrative about Singapore. The gameplay is trivial (mines don't actually punish you), but the production values and commitment to the joke are perfect. Comments praise the commentary on modern gaming excess and highlight the irony of wasting time through logos while claiming \"there's no time to waste.\"","long":"$13","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive satirical game with perfect comedic execution and sharp production design…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:15.813Z","age":"25 hours ago"},{"key":"https://iminafleeting.com","id":50018088,"rank":3,"title":"Sorry, I'm in a meeting","url":"https://iminafleeting.com/","domain":"iminafleeting.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018088","by":"splintersio","score":969,"commentCount":266,"time":1791537708000,"short":"Website playing realistic fake conference call audio so people can pretend to be in meetings. Link currently broken for some users (audio 404 errors). Comments note the concept is genuinely useful—people use it to avoid interruptions or look busy—but some find individual voices too distracting, and some worry it's now on corporate blocklists.","long":"$14","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:01.041Z","age":"31 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cactuscompute.com/blog/whistle","id":50008427,"rank":4,"title":"Whistle: Speech to Text in 16.9 MB","url":"https://cactuscompute.com/blog/whistle","domain":"cactuscompute.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008427","by":"gmays","score":940,"commentCount":181,"time":1791478779000,"short":"Cactus released Whistle, a 16.9 MB speech-to-text model supporting seven languages that runs CPU-only, reaches first token in 11 ms, and integrates with their Needle LLM engine for voice-controlled tool calls. HN users praised accuracy and size, though streaming output and accent handling drew criticism; key challenges remain with non-English speakers and complex vocabularies.","long":"$15","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:29.028Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://oxide.computer/blog/our-445m-series-d","id":50020014,"rank":5,"title":"Our $445M Series D","url":"https://oxide.computer/blog/our-445m-series-d","domain":"oxide.computer","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50020014","by":"ahlCVA","score":678,"commentCount":307,"time":1791551567000,"short":"Oxide Computer raised $445M Series D, unusual because they're already profitable—their ordinary business selling servers generates taxable income. Growth is demand-constrained; they need cash for inventory to fulfill backlog. Investors include Eclipse (lead), existing backers, AMD (strategic), and newcomer Atreides. Comments praise their execution and podcast but note lack of GPU support and missing pricing info as limitations.","long":"$16","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:02.081Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://gizmodo.com/youtuber-says-cops-paid-him-a-visit-after-he-built-flock-style-camera-to-track-cops-2000824306","id":50026555,"rank":6,"title":"YouTuber Says Cops Visited Him After He Built a Flock-Style Camera to Track Cops","url":"https://gizmodo.com/youtuber-says-cops-paid-him-a-visit-after-he-built-flock-style-camera-to-track-cops-2000824306","domain":"gizmodo.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50026555","by":"gumby","score":631,"commentCount":340,"time":1791580019000,"short":"A Canadian YouTuber built a license plate reader (ALPR) camera to track police vehicles in response to law enforcement using Flock cameras on civilians. Police subsequently visited him. Comments debated whether civilian surveillance of cops mirrors government overreach or differs fundamentally, with calls for stronger ALPR legislation, concern about mass surveillance expansion, and disagreement over whether turnabout empathy-building justifies reciprocal tracking.","long":"$17","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:16.743Z","age":"19 hours ago"},{"key":"https://rea.tools","id":50028275,"rank":7,"title":"REA Reverse – Engineer Anything","url":"https://rea.tools/","domain":"rea.tools","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50028275","by":"modinfo","score":573,"commentCount":249,"time":1791592627000,"short":"REA (Reverse Engineer Anything) is an open-source tool that uses coding agents with AI to automatically inspect programs and explain how they work. Users prompt an agent in natural English to recover code logic from compiled binaries, JavaScript apps, and browsers without manual assembly analysis. HN comments debate its dual impact: enabling legitimate archival and DRM cracking but also potentially flooding hobbyist game decomposition with low-effort AI ports, raising concerns about commercial…","long":"$18","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive demos of reverse engineering (dinosaur game speed recovery, Calculator %…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T08:29:41.216Z","age":"16 hours ago"},{"key":"https://theranos.world","id":50009295,"rank":8,"title":"Theranos.world","url":"https://www.theranos.world/","domain":"theranos.world","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50009295","by":"kbyatnal","score":559,"commentCount":204,"time":1791481909000,"short":"Interactive browser-based desktop simulator recreating Elizabeth Holmes' MacOS/iOS setup circa Theranos' peak, with hidden apps and Easter eggs. Actual purpose is guerrilla marketing for \"Extend,\" a document infrastructure startup. HN consensus: brilliantly executed, surprisingly tasteful ad campaign that recalls Flash-era creativity, though some note the irony of celebrating fraud-era aesthetics and one commenter flagged a Twitter/X anachronism.","long":"$19","gem":true,"gemReason":"Delightful interactive 3D desktop simulator with working apps, Easter eggs, and hidden…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:41.906Z","age":"47 hours ago"},{"key":"https://reuters.com/world/us-imposes-sanctions-international-criminal-court-hours-after-former-judge-wins-2026-10-09","id":50021066,"rank":9,"title":"US imposes sanctions on ICC hours after former judge wins Nobel Peace Prize","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/us-imposes-sanctions-international-criminal-court-hours-after-former-judge-wins-2026-10-09/","domain":"reuters.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50021066","by":"poly2it","score":499,"commentCount":502,"time":1791556314000,"short":"US sanctions ICC hours after former judge wins Nobel Peace Prize. Article unavailable, but comments show deep divisions: supporters see vindication of international accountability and criticism of US exceptionalism; critics argue ICC is selectively applied to weak states while ignoring major powers like Saudi Arabia, Syria, and China, and lacks legitimacy without US/China membership.","long":"$1a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:08.204Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/2026/press-release","id":50018420,"rank":10,"title":"Nobel Peace Prize for 2026 to Navanethem Pillay","url":"https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/peace/2026/press-release/","domain":"nobelprize.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018420","by":"Anon84","score":475,"commentCount":244,"time":1791540731000,"short":"The Nobel Peace Prize 2026 goes to Navi Pillay, a South African judge and international law pioneer who has served on the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, the ICC, and currently the ICJ in the Myanmar genocide case. The Norwegian Nobel Committee cited her work prosecuting war crimes and crimes against humanity, but HN comments highlighted her controversial role chairing a UN commission that found Israel committing genocide in Palestine, creating political controversy amid rising…","long":"$1b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:01.012Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cnbc.com/2026/10/08/open-ai-revenue-nvidia-oracle-coreweave.html","id":50008187,"rank":11,"title":"OpenAI annualised revenues $20B less than previously signalled","url":"https://www.cnbc.com/2026/10/08/open-ai-revenue-nvidia-oracle-coreweave.html","domain":"cnbc.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008187","by":"mfiguiere","score":426,"commentCount":300,"time":1791477958000,"short":"OpenAI reported $50B annualized revenue to investors, down $18B from the widely-circulated $68B figure from late September. The discrepancy arose from the $68B including gross revenue from OpenAI's partners (used to compare with Anthropic's metrics), while OpenAI's actual number excludes partner revenue. The revelation tanked AI stocks: Nvidia -3%, Oracle -6%, CoreWeave -8%. HN comments split between those viewing it as investor accounting confusion versus deliberate misstatement to justify…","long":"$1c","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T01:04:38.201Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://typesafe.ai/blog/series-ai","id":50023450,"rank":12,"title":"Typesafe AI raises $870M at $7.5B","url":"https://typesafe.ai/blog/series-ai","domain":"typesafe.ai","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50023450","by":"tosh","score":413,"commentCount":330,"time":1791565351000,"short":"TypeSafe AI raised $870M at $7.5B valuation led by Andreessen Horowitz, with Sequoia and others participating. They promise enterprise features, faster models, and better infrastructure around their Jev decision model. HN comments express skepticism: dozens of open-source alternatives duplicated Jev within days, OpenAI and Microsoft released competing products, and the valuation appears unjustified by competitive moat. Defenders cite strong marketing, team quality, and potential as an AI lab…","long":"$1d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:25.972Z","age":"23 hours ago"},{"key":"https://carette.xyz/posts/lobbying_and_corruption","id":50032556,"rank":13,"title":"Lobbying is corruption","url":"https://carette.xyz/posts/lobbying_and_corruption/","domain":"carette.xyz","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50032556","by":"LucidLynx","score":404,"commentCount":197,"time":1791637558000,"short":"European blogger argues American \"lobbying\" is simply corruption with better branding. Politicians receive campaign donations from corporations, then pass the donors' preferred laws—legally distinct from bribes only by semantic rebranding. Comments split sharply: some argue lobbying is essential democratic participation and expertise-sharing, while others agree it's corruption when money influences policy, noting Citizens United enabled systemic problems. EU has similar issues despite…","long":"$1e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:29.757Z","age":"3 hours ago"},{"key":"https://github.com/franzenzenhofer/big-arrow-on-the-screen","id":50018817,"rank":14,"title":"Show HN: Let your AI agents paint big arrows, boxes and text on your screen","url":"https://github.com/franzenzenhofer/big-arrow-on-the-screen","domain":"github.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018817","by":"franze","score":403,"commentCount":183,"time":1791543828000,"short":"bigarrow is a macOS CLI tool and Claude Code/Codex skill that draws transparent overlays (arrows, boxes, text) on-screen to guide users when AI agents need human interaction. It handles permission prompts, 2FA, CAPTCHAs, and teaching workflows by pointing rather than clicking. Clicks pass through to underlying apps, never steals focus, no permissions needed for drawing. HN comments praised its elegance but debated whether it solves the right problem: pointing at buttons doesn't help users…","long":"$1f","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive tool with polished UX, real-world utility for agent-human workflows…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:15.630Z","age":"29 hours ago"},{"key":"https://frontiersin.org/journals/psychiatry/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1697900/full","id":50011928,"rank":15,"title":"ADHD as a circadian rhythm disorder: evidence and implications for chronotherapy (2025)","url":"https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/psychiatry/articles/10.3389/fpsyt.2025.1697900/full","domain":"frontiersin.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50011928","by":"bookofjoe","score":389,"commentCount":261,"time":1791492136000,"short":"Frontiers in Psychiatry perspective argues circadian dysfunction is prevalent in substantial ADHD subset: 73-80% show delayed sleep, melatonin onset delayed 45-90 min, altered cortisol/clock genes (BMAL1/PER2). Interventions advancing circadian phase (melatonin, bright light, behavioral sleep programs) show symptom improvement, particularly in winter. Comments debate causality—expert chronobiologist notes associations exist but ADHD lacks clock mutations; critics question whether sleep issues…","long":"$20","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:36.325Z","age":"44 hours ago"},{"key":"https://carrierexplode.com","id":50024499,"rank":16,"title":"Show HN: Carrier-Explode: iPhone, Pixel and Galaxy carrier settings decoded","url":"https://carrierexplode.com/","domain":"carrierexplode.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50024499","by":"simplyalec","score":378,"commentCount":45,"time":1791569455000,"short":"Carrier-Explode decodes carrier settings embedded in iPhone, Pixel and Galaxy firmware, showing APNs, VoLTE, Wi-Fi calling, 5G configs. Commenters praise the international coverage and useful UI, with discussions on carrier restrictions (hotspot disabling), finding CA combos, and whether settings are modifiable. Some question practical uses beyond hobbyist interest.","long":"$21","gem":true,"gemReason":"Interactive database with clean UI for exploring real device carrier configs across…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T08:29:31.197Z","age":"22 hours ago"},{"key":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/10/08/fired-openai-safety-researchers-dispute-misconduct-claims-warn-of-chilling-effect","id":50018350,"rank":17,"title":"OpenAI fires three safety researchers for \"mishandling research information\"","url":"https://techcrunch.com/2026/10/08/fired-openai-safety-researchers-dispute-misconduct-claims-warn-of-chilling-effect/","domain":"techcrunch.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50018350","by":"trakkstar","score":347,"commentCount":216,"time":1791540026000,"short":"OpenAI fired three safety researchers (Wang, Korbak, Balesni) for mishandling sensitive information. The researchers published an open letter denying misconduct and warning the dismissals create a chilling effect on safety work and external collaboration. OpenAI maintains the firing wasn't retaliation for raising concerns, but comments debate whether the researchers legitimately violated policies or were punished for prioritizing safety oversight.","long":"$22","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:16.622Z","age":"30 hours ago"},{"key":"https://unsung.aresluna.org/deeper-dive-keyboard-differences-between-windows-and-macs","id":50015515,"rank":18,"title":"Keyboard differences between Windows and Macs","url":"https://unsung.aresluna.org/deeper-dive-keyboard-differences-between-windows-and-macs/","domain":"unsung.aresluna.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50015515","by":"sohkamyung","score":336,"commentCount":281,"time":1791515285000,"short":"Comprehensive technical reference on keyboard differences between Windows and Mac: different key names (Backspace/Delete, Enter/Return), modifier key layouts (Ctrl vs Cmd), symbol vs. word legends, shortcut notation, function key access, character input methods (Option vs AltGr), text field conventions (Unix shortcuts on Mac), and navigation behavior (Tab, Page Up/Down, Home/End). HN comments confirm it's thorough but highlight pain points when switching platforms and note some technical…","long":"$23","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T16:26:12.255Z","age":"37 hours ago"},{"key":"https://cphpost.dk/2026-10-10/news/round-up/123456-password-used-in-massive-danish-cpr-data-breach","id":50031269,"rank":19,"title":"`123456' password used in Danish CPR data breach","url":"https://cphpost.dk/2026-10-10/news/round-up/123456-password-used-in-massive-danish-cpr-data-breach/","domain":"cphpost.dk","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50031269","by":"baal80spam","score":304,"commentCount":169,"time":1791625909000,"short":"A massive Danish CPR (Central Person Register, equivalent to US SSN) database breach exposed records of millions via a small IT contractor's account using the password \"123456\". Access went undetected for 22 days with no monitoring or rate-limiting. HN comments emphasize systemic failures: disabled account checking, absent MFA, lack of audit trails, weak password policies, and broader architectural issues like treating CPR numbers as secrets rather than public IDs.","long":"$24","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:30.711Z","age":"7 hours ago"},{"key":"https://beaksec.github.io/posts/telegram-desktop-one-click-account-takeover","id":50029123,"rank":20,"title":"Telegram Desktop vulnerability allowed any user's file to be stolen","url":"https://beaksec.github.io/posts/telegram-desktop-one-click-account-takeover/","domain":"beaksec.github.io","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50029123","by":"g-b-r","score":304,"commentCount":157,"time":1791601367000,"short":"Telegram Desktop through 7.2.8 allowed account takeover and arbitrary file theft via a single clicked link through two chained bugs: unescaped semicolons in IPC message serialization enabled command injection, which then exploited an internal interpret: URI scheme that reads and uploads files without authorization. Fixed in 7.2.9 via escaping, though shipped quietly without advisory.","long":"$25","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:34.106Z","age":"13 hours ago"},{"key":"https://borretti.me/article/no-man-is-an-island","id":50025935,"rank":21,"title":"No Man Is an Island","url":"https://borretti.me/article/no-man-is-an-island","domain":"borretti.me","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50025935","by":"zetalyrae","score":303,"commentCount":195,"time":1791576240000,"short":"Borretti argues that intellectual activity—whether software engineering, mathematics, or broader knowledge work—requires both a shared body of prior work AND motivation, where extrinsic motivation (recognition, community esteem) sustains effort between moments of intrinsic passion. AI makes intellectual contributions (blog posts, new languages, libraries) feel pointless because humans no longer consume or benefit from them, dissolving the communities that provide extrinsic motivation. HN…","long":"$26","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:30.367Z","age":"20 hours ago"},{"key":"https://python.org/downloads/release/python-3150","id":50021127,"rank":22,"title":"Python 3.15","url":"https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3150/","domain":"python.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50021127","by":"ngoldbaum","score":299,"commentCount":105,"time":1791556542000,"short":"Python 3.15 released Oct 2026 with 5,643 commits from 1,012 contributors. Major features: lazy imports for faster startup (PEP 810), sentinel and frozendict built-ins, JIT improvements (7-8% x86-64, 11-12% AArch64), UTF-8 default, unpacking in comprehensions, free-threaded support. HN consensus: excited about lazy imports and quality-of-life features; cryptography and other projects already shipping compatible wheels.","long":"$27","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:16.541Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://animationobsessive.substack.com/p/wallace-and-gromit-90-alone","id":50020533,"rank":23,"title":"'Wallace and Gromit,' 90% Alone","url":"https://animationobsessive.substack.com/p/wallace-and-gromit-90-alone","domain":"animationobsessive.substack.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50020533","by":"vinhnx","score":260,"commentCount":41,"time":1791553771000,"short":"A Substack essay (paywall-blocked) details how Nick Park spent years largely alone on his school project \"A Grand Day Out,\" commuting by bus to work frame-by-frame stop motion almost solo. Comments praise his dedication, recall the subsequent films' brilliance especially The Wrong Trousers' train sequence, and draw parallels to Orson Welles learning filmmaking by doing what he didn't know wasn't supposed to work.","long":"$28","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:29.445Z","age":"27 hours ago"},{"key":"https://solarpowerworldonline.com/2026/10/4-hour-battery-storage-is-cheaper-to-install-than-gas-turbines-all-across-globe","id":50007519,"rank":24,"title":"4-hour battery storage is cheaper to install than gas turbines all across globe","url":"https://www.solarpowerworldonline.com/2026/10/4-hour-battery-storage-is-cheaper-to-install-than-gas-turbines-all-across-globe/","domain":"solarpowerworldonline.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50007519","by":"01-_-","score":259,"commentCount":161,"time":1791475413000,"short":"Wood Mackenzie report finds 4-hour battery storage now cheaper than open-cycle gas turbines in all 43 modeled markets globally. Solar LCOE leads in 43 of 48 markets; storage costs forecast to fall 33% by 2035. HN skepticism focused on 2060 forecasts, duration gaps (4 hours insufficient for multi-day weather events), and whether models assume gas costs rise while battery costs fall without rigorous backing.","long":"$29","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-09T08:35:35.245Z","age":"2 days ago"},{"key":"https://bevy.org/news/bevy-0-20","id":50013610,"rank":25,"title":"Bevy 0.20","url":"https://bevy.org/news/bevy-0-20/","domain":"bevy.org","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50013610","by":"Philpax","score":250,"commentCount":68,"time":1791500270000,"short":"Bevy 0.20 ships with major improvements to Solari (path-traced renderer now faster with DLSS 4.5 and macOS support), cleaner BSN scene syntax removing template_value boilerplate, WESL shader language adoption with IDE tooling, sprite custom materials, mesh shaders, and UI widgets. Comments note impressive quality of contributions and a shift toward more opinionated architecture, though BSN syntax earns criticism for complexity and migration overhead remains a concern for production use.","long":"$2a","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:26.224Z","age":"41 hours ago"},{"key":"https://blog.glyph.im/2026/10/programming-isnt-special.html","id":50017357,"rank":26,"title":"Programming Isn't Special","url":"https://blog.glyph.im/2026/10/programming-isnt-special.html","domain":"blog.glyph.im","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50017357","by":"ingve","score":241,"commentCount":248,"time":1791531876000,"short":"Glyph argues programming is art, not mere plumbing—examining how artists resist AI while programmers resign themselves to it. The essay contends that dismissing code as merely functional work strips away opportunities for meaningful craft development. Comments sharply divide: some agree coding can be beautiful but question whether the majority of programmers practice it that way; others insist most programming is utilitarian output design rather than artistic expression, and that AI speeds up…","long":"$2b","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:46.374Z","age":"33 hours ago"},{"key":"https://quake-srp.pages.dev","id":50016312,"rank":27,"title":"Show HN: Quake ported to safe Rust, playable in browser","url":"https://quake-srp.pages.dev/","domain":"quake-srp.pages.dev","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50016312","by":"ilreb","score":230,"commentCount":176,"time":1791523378000,"short":"A fully playable Quake port to safe Rust, software-rendered in the browser without GPU dependencies. Pixel-perfect reproduction of the original 1996 game with QoL improvements, playable with keyboard/gamepad. Author used LLM assistance for C-to-Rust conversion; commenters praise the technical achievement while debating whether AI-assisted ports are necessary or if the real feat was getting underlying tech (WASM, browser rendering) to work.","long":"$2c","gem":true,"gemReason":"Fully playable pixel-perfect Quake in browser with gamepad support, immediate and smooth…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T01:02:31.148Z","age":"35 hours ago"},{"key":"https://ken.arneson.name/2015/11/the-value-of-not-getting-to-the-point","id":50010470,"rank":28,"title":"The value of not getting to the point (2015)","url":"https://ken.arneson.name/2015/11/the-value-of-not-getting-to-the-point/","domain":"ken.arneson.name","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50010470","by":"NaOH","score":230,"commentCount":81,"time":1791486296000,"short":"Ken Arneson reflects on discovering, in his 50s, that casual conversation's real purpose is building trust and emotional safety—not efficiency. He realized his direct, get-to-the-point communication style overlooked how people need unhurried \"warmup\" before tackling vulnerable topics. He connects this to why Twitter discourse fails: the 140-char limit eliminates rituals that make difficult conversations possible offline.","long":"$2d","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T08:29:33.940Z","age":"45 hours ago"},{"key":"https://united24media.com/war-in-ukraine/yandex-takes-a-second-data-center-hit-in-48-hours-now-its-biggest-russian-site-is-damaged-23277","id":50020927,"rank":29,"title":"Yandex Takes a Second Data Center Hit in 48 Hours","url":"https://united24media.com/war-in-ukraine/yandex-takes-a-second-data-center-hit-in-48-hours-now-its-biggest-russian-site-is-damaged-23277","domain":"united24media.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50020927","by":"ortusdux","score":225,"commentCount":319,"time":1791555619000,"short":"Ukrainian drones struck Yandex's largest data center in Russia's Kaluga region on October 9, the second hit in 48 hours, knocking several modules offline. The 130,000 square-meter facility (63 MW capacity, 3,800+ server racks) was completed in 2023 and powered Yandex's taxi, delivery, and cloud services. HN commenters debated targeting strategy, decentralization vs. economy of scale, and broader implications for critical infrastructure resilience in conflict.","long":"$2e","gem":false,"gemReason":"","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:38.208Z","age":"26 hours ago"},{"key":"https://scottbezek.blogspot.com/2026/10/making-flexible-neon-t-shirt-with-leds.html","id":50008047,"rank":30,"title":"Show HN: Making a flexible \"neon\" t-shirt with LED filaments","url":"http://scottbezek.blogspot.com/2026/10/making-flexible-neon-t-shirt-with-leds.html","domain":"scottbezek.blogspot.com","isTextPost":false,"commentsUrl":"https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=50008047","by":"scottbez1","score":219,"commentCount":37,"time":1791477444000,"short":"Author built a wearable \"neon\" t-shirt using flexible LED filament strips (not EL wire) sewn into fabric, powered by an ESP32 microcontroller and battery pack, with animated PWM effects. HN users praised the execution and cyberpunk aesthetic, while noting soldering challenges with LED strips, comparing to older EL wire projects, and discussing washability limitations.","long":"$2f","gem":true,"gemReason":"DIY wearable light-up t-shirt with visible animations—interesting maker project…","summarizedAt":"2026-10-10T16:24:37.907Z","age":"2 days ago"}]}],"$L30","$L31"]}]]
30:["$","nav",null,{"className":"run-nav","children":[["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/archive/2026-10-10T08-29Z/","children":["← ","2026-10-10 08:29 UTC"]}],["$","$L10",null,{"href":"/","children":"Current list →"}]]}]
31:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":["Rebuilt every 8 hours from"," ",["$","a",null,{"href":"https://news.ycombinator.com/best","target":"_blank","rel":"noreferrer","children":"news.ycombinator.com/best"}],". Summaries cover the linked page and its comment thread."]}],["$","div",null,{"children":"Served static from the Clio Internal Workshop."}]]}]
a:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#ff6600"}]]
6:null
8:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"2026-10-10 16:24 UTC · HNSummarized"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Hacker News best stories with AI summaries of the link and its comments. Regenerated hourly."}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
d:"$8:metadata"
